# TTS Papers - 2022-11-02

Total: 2

## Robust MelGAN: A robust universal neural vocoder for high-fidelity TTS
- **Authors**: Kun Song et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2210.17349](https://arxiv.org/abs/2210.17349)
- **Tags**: codec, synthesis
- **Abstract**: Neural HMMs are a type of neural transducer recently proposed for sequence-to-sequence modelling in text-to-speech. They combine the best features of classic statistical speech synthesis and modern neural TTS, requiring less data and fewer training updates, and are less prone to gibberish output caused by neural attention failures. In this paper, we combine neural HMM TTS with normalising flows for describing the highly non-Gaussian distribution of speech acoustics. The result is a powerful, fully probabilistic model of durations and acoustics that can be trained using exact maximum likelihood. Experiments show that a system based on our proposal needs fewer updates than comparable methods to produce accurate pronunciations and a subjective speech quality close to natural speech. Please see https://shivammehta25.github.io/OverFlow/ for audio examples and code.

## AdaVITS: Tiny VITS for Low Computing Resource Speaker Adaptation
- **Authors**: Kun Song et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2206.00208](https://arxiv.org/abs/2206.00208)
- **Tags**: zero-shot
- **Abstract**: We propose Guided-TTS 2, a diffusion-based generative model for high-quality adaptive TTS using untranscribed data. Guided-TTS 2 combines a speaker-conditional diffusion model with a speaker-dependent phoneme classifier for adaptive text-to-speech. We train the speaker-conditional diffusion model on large-scale untranscribed datasets for a classifier-free guidance method and further fine-tune the diffusion model on the reference speech of the target speaker for adaptation, which only takes 40 seconds. We demonstrate that Guided-TTS 2 shows comparable performance to high-quality single-speaker TTS baselines in terms of speech quality and speaker similarity with only a ten-second untranscribed data. We further show that Guided-TTS 2 outperforms adaptive TTS baselines on multi-speaker datasets even with a zero-shot adaptation setting. Guided-TTS 2 can adapt to a wide range of voices only using untranscribed speech, which enables adaptive TTS with the voice of non-human characters such as Gollum in \textit{"The Lord of the Rings"}.

