# TTS Papers - 2022-09-22

Total: 3

## EPIC TTS Models: Empirical Pruning Investigations Characterizing Text-To-Speech Models
- **Authors**: Perry Lam et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2209.10890](https://arxiv.org/abs/2209.10890)
- **Tags**: synthesis
- **Abstract**: Training end-to-end speech translation (ST) systems requires sufficiently large-scale data, which is unavailable for most language pairs and domains. One practical solution to the data scarcity issue is to convert machine translation data (MT) to ST data via text-to-speech (TTS) systems. Yet, using TTS systems can be tedious and slow, as the conversion needs to be done for each MT dataset. In this work, we propose a simple, scalable and effective data augmentation technique, i.e., SpokenVocab, to convert MT data to ST data on-the-fly. The idea is to retrieve and stitch audio snippets from a SpokenVocab bank according to words in an MT sequence. Our experiments on multiple language pairs from Must-C show that this method outperforms strong baselines by an average of 1.83 BLEU scores, and it performs equally well as TTS-generated speech. We also showcase how SpokenVocab can be applied in code-switching ST for which often no TTS systems exit. Our code is available at https://github.com/mingzi151/SpokenVocab

## MnTTS: An Open-Source Mongolian Text-to-Speech Synthesis Dataset and Accompanied Baseline
- **Authors**: Yifan Hu et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2209.10848](https://arxiv.org/abs/2209.10848)
- **Tags**: synthesis
- **Abstract**: Most previous neural text-to-speech (TTS) methods are mainly based on supervised learning methods, which means they depend on a large training dataset and hard to achieve comparable performance under low-resource conditions. To address this issue, we propose a semi-supervised learning method for neural TTS in which labeled target data is limited, which can also resolve the problem of exposure bias in the previous auto-regressive models. Specifically, we pre-train the reference model based on Fastspeech2 with much source data, fine-tuned on a limited target dataset. Meanwhile, pseudo labels generated by the original reference model are used to guide the fine-tuned model's training further, achieve a regularization effect, and reduce the overfitting of the fine-tuned model during training on the limited target data. Experimental results show that our proposed semi-supervised learning scheme with limited target data significantly improves the voice quality for test data to achieve naturalness and robustness in speech synthesis.

## Controllable Accented Text-to-Speech Synthesis
- **Authors**: Rui Liu et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2209.10804](https://arxiv.org/abs/2209.10804)
- **Tags**: synthesis
- **Abstract**: Neural models are known to be over-parameterized, and recent work has shown that sparse text-to-speech (TTS) models can outperform dense models. Although a plethora of sparse methods has been proposed for other domains, such methods have rarely been applied in TTS. In this work, we seek to answer the question: what are the characteristics of selected sparse techniques on the performance and model complexity? We compare a Tacotron2 baseline and the results of applying five techniques. We then evaluate the performance via the factors of naturalness, intelligibility and prosody, while reporting model size and training time. Complementary to prior research, we find that pruning before or during training can achieve similar performance to pruning after training and can be trained much faster, while removing entire neurons degrades performance much more than removing parameters. To our best knowledge, this is the first work that compares sparsity paradigms in text-to-speech synthesis.

