# TTS Papers - 2022-08-03

Total: 2

## A Study of Modeling Rising Intonation in Cantonese Neural Speech Synthesis
- **Authors**: Qibing Bai et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2208.02189](https://arxiv.org/abs/2208.02189)
- **Tags**: expressive, synthesis
- **Abstract**: The recent text-to-speech (TTS) has achieved quality comparable to that of humans; however, its application in spoken dialogue has not been widely studied. This study aims to realize a TTS that closely resembles human dialogue. First, we record and transcribe actual spontaneous dialogues. Then, the proposed dialogue TTS is trained in two stages: first stage, variational autoencoder (VAE)-VITS or Gaussian mixture variational autoencoder (GMVAE)-VITS is trained, which introduces an utterance-level latent variable into variational inference with adversarial learning for end-to-end text-to-speech (VITS), a recently proposed end-to-end TTS model. A style encoder that extracts a latent speaking style representation from speech is trained jointly with TTS. In the second stage, a style predictor is trained to predict the speaking style to be synthesized from dialogue history. During inference, by passing the speaking style representation predicted by the style predictor to VAE/GMVAE-VITS, speech can be synthesized in a style appropriate to the context of the dialogue. Subjective evaluation results demonstrate that the proposed method outperforms the original VITS in terms of dialogue-level naturalness.

## Few-Shot Cross-Lingual TTS Using Transferable Phoneme Embedding
- **Authors**: Wei-Ping Huang et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2206.15427](https://arxiv.org/abs/2206.15427)
- **Tags**: zero-shot, multilingual, synthesis
- **Abstract**: Speaker adaptation in text-to-speech synthesis (TTS) is to finetune a pre-trained TTS model to adapt to new target speakers with limited data. While much effort has been conducted towards this task, seldom work has been performed for low computational resource scenarios due to the challenges raised by the requirement of the lightweight model and less computational complexity. In this paper, a tiny VITS-based TTS model, named AdaVITS, for low computing resource speaker adaptation is proposed. To effectively reduce parameters and computational complexity of VITS, an iSTFT-based wave construction decoder is proposed to replace the upsampling-based decoder which is resource-consuming in the original VITS. Besides, NanoFlow is introduced to share the density estimate across flow blocks to reduce the parameters of the prior encoder. Furthermore, to reduce the computational complexity of the textual encoder, scaled-dot attention is replaced with linear attention. To deal with the instability caused by the simplified model, instead of using the original text encoder, phonetic posteriorgram (PPG) is utilized as linguistic feature via a text-to-PPG module, which is then used as input for the encoder. Experiment shows that AdaVITS can generate stable and natural speech in speaker adaptation with 8.97M model parameters and 0.72GFlops computational complexity.

