# TTS Papers - 2022-11-06

Total: 2

## Parallel Attention Forcing for Machine Translation
- **Authors**: Qingyun Dou et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2211.03237](https://arxiv.org/abs/2211.03237)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: Accent plays a significant role in speech communication, influencing one's capability to understand as well as conveying a person's identity. This paper introduces a novel and efficient framework for accented Text-to-Speech (TTS) synthesis based on a Conditional Variational Autoencoder. It has the ability to synthesize a selected speaker's voice, and convert this to any desired target accent. Our thorough experiments validate the effectiveness of the proposed framework using both objective and subjective evaluations. The results also show remarkable performance in terms of the model's ability to manipulate accents in the synthesized speech. Overall, our proposed framework presents a promising avenue for future accented TTS research.

## An Empirical Study on L2 Accents of Cross-lingual Text-to-Speech Systems via Vowel Space
- **Authors**: Jihwan Lee et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2211.03078](https://arxiv.org/abs/2211.03078)
- **Tags**: multilingual, synthesis
- **Abstract**: We present a multi-speaker Japanese audiobook text-to-speech (TTS) system that leverages multimodal context information of preceding acoustic context and bilateral textual context to improve the prosody of synthetic speech. Previous work either uses unilateral or single-modality context, which does not fully represent the context information. The proposed method uses an acoustic context encoder and a textual context encoder to aggregate context information and feeds it to the TTS model, which enables the model to predict context-dependent prosody. We conducted comprehensive objective and subjective evaluations on a multi-speaker Japanese audiobook dataset. Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed method significantly outperforms two previous works. Additionally, we present insights about the different choices of context - modalities, lateral information and length - for audiobook TTS that have never been discussed in the literature before.

