# TTS Papers - 2022-04-21

Total: 2

## FastDiff: A Fast Conditional Diffusion Model for High-Quality Speech Synthesis
- **Authors**: Rongjie Huang et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2204.09934](https://arxiv.org/abs/2204.09934)
- **Tags**: streaming, synthesis
- **Abstract**: In this work, we propose a joint system combining a talking face generation system with a text-to-speech system that can generate multilingual talking face videos from only the text input. Our system can synthesize natural multilingual speeches while maintaining the vocal identity of the speaker, as well as lip movements synchronized to the synthesized speech. We demonstrate the generalization capabilities of our system by selecting four languages (Korean, English, Japanese, and Chinese) each from a different language family. We also compare the outputs of our talking face generation model to outputs of a prior work that claims multilingual support. For our demo, we add a translation API to the preprocessing stage and present it in the form of a neural dubber so that users can utilize the multilingual property of our system more easily.

## Does Audio Deepfake Detection Generalize?
- **Authors**: Nicolas M. Müller et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2203.16263](https://arxiv.org/abs/2203.16263)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: The mainstream neural text-to-speech(TTS) pipeline is a cascade system, including an acoustic model(AM) that predicts acoustic feature from the input transcript and a vocoder that generates waveform according to the given acoustic feature. However, the acoustic feature in current TTS systems is typically mel-spectrogram, which is highly correlated along both time and frequency axes in a complicated way, leading to a great difficulty for the AM to predict. Although high-fidelity audio can be generated by recent neural vocoders from ground-truth(GT) mel-spectrogram, the gap between the GT and the predicted mel-spectrogram from AM degrades the performance of the entire TTS system. In this work, we propose VQTTS, consisting of an AM txt2vec and a vocoder vec2wav, which uses self-supervised vector-quantized(VQ) acoustic feature rather than mel-spectrogram. We redesign both the AM and the vocoder accordingly. In particular, txt2vec basically becomes a classification model instead of a traditional regression model while vec2wav uses an additional feature encoder before HifiGAN generator for smoothing the discontinuous quantized feature. Our experiments show that vec2wav achieves better reconstruction performance than HifiGAN when using self-supervised VQ acoustic feature. Moreover, our entire TTS system VQTTS achieves state-of-the-art performance in terms of naturalness among all current publicly available TTS systems.

