# TTS Papers - 2022-10-21

Total: 3

## Low-Resource Multilingual and Zero-Shot Multispeaker TTS
- **Authors**: Florian Lux et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2210.12223](https://arxiv.org/abs/2210.12223)
- **Tags**: zero-shot, multilingual, synthesis
- **Abstract**: DeepFake Audio, unlike DeepFake images and videos, has been relatively less explored from detection perspective, and the solutions which exist for the synthetic speech classification either use complex networks or dont generalize to different varieties of synthetic speech obtained using different generative and optimization-based methods. Through this work, we propose a channel-wise recalibration of features using attention feature fusion for synthetic speech detection and compare its performance against different detection methods including End2End models and Resnet-based models on synthetic speech generated using Text to Speech and Vocoder systems like WaveNet, WaveRNN, Tactotron, and WaveGlow. We also experiment with Squeeze Excitation (SE) blocks in our Resnet models and found that the combination was able to get better performance. In addition to the analysis, we also demonstrate that the combination of Linear frequency cepstral coefficients (LFCC) and Mel Frequency cepstral coefficients (MFCC) using the attentional feature fusion technique creates better input features representations which can help even simpler models generalize well on synthetic speech classification tasks. Our models (Resnet based using feature fusion) trained on Fake or Real (FoR) dataset and were able to achieve 95% test accuracy with the FoR data, and an average of 90% accuracy with samples we generated using different generative models after adapting this framework.

## Adaptive re-calibration of channel-wise features for Adversarial Audio Classification
- **Authors**: Vardhan Dongre et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2210.11722](https://arxiv.org/abs/2210.11722)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: This research aims to make metaverse characters more realistic by adding lip animations learnt from videos in the wild. To achieve this, our approach is to extend Tacotron 2 text-to-speech synthesizer to generate lip movements together with mel spectrogram in one pass. The encoder and gate layer weights are pre-trained on LJ Speech 1.1 data set while the decoder is retrained on 93 clips of TED talk videos extracted from LRS 3 data set. Our novel decoder predicts displacement in 20 lip landmark positions across time, using labels automatically extracted by OpenFace 2.0 landmark predictor. Training converged in 7 hours using less than 5 minutes of video. We conducted ablation study for Pre/Post-Net and pre-trained encoder weights to demonstrate the effectiveness of transfer learning between audio and visual speech data.

## Exact Prosody Cloning in Zero-Shot Multispeaker Text-to-Speech
- **Authors**: Florian Lux et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2206.12229](https://arxiv.org/abs/2206.12229)
- **Tags**: zero-shot, expressive, synthesis
- **Abstract**: Developing Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR) for low-resource languages is a challenge due to the small amount of transcribed audio data. For many such languages, audio and text are available separately, but not audio with transcriptions. Using text, speech can be synthetically produced via text-to-speech (TTS) systems. However, many low-resource languages do not have quality TTS systems either. We propose an alternative: produce synthetic audio by running text from the target language through a trained TTS system for a higher-resource pivot language. We investigate when and how this technique is most effective in low-resource settings. In our experiments, using several thousand synthetic TTS text-speech pairs and duplicating authentic data to balance yields optimal results. Our findings suggest that searching over a set of candidate pivot languages can lead to marginal improvements and that, surprisingly, ASR performance can by harmed by increases in measured TTS quality. Application of these findings improves ASR by 64.5\% and 45.0\% character error reduction rate (CERR) respectively for two low-resource languages: Guaraní and Suba.

