# TTS Papers - 2022-08-15

Total: 2

## Towards Parametric Speech Synthesis Using Gaussian-Markov Model of Spectral Envelope and Wavelet-Based Decomposition of F0
- **Authors**: Mohammed Salah Al-Radhi et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2208.07122](https://arxiv.org/abs/2208.07122)
- **Tags**: synthesis
- **Abstract**: With the recent developments in speech synthesis via machine learning, this study explores incorporating linguistics knowledge to visualise and evaluate synthetic speech model training. If changes to the first and second formant (in turn, the vowel space) can be seen and heard in synthetic speech, this knowledge can inform speech synthesis technology developers. A speech synthesis model trained on a large General American English database was fine-tuned into a New Zealand English voice to identify if the changes in the vowel space of synthetic speech could be seen and heard. The vowel spaces at different intervals during the fine-tuning were analysed to determine if the model learned the New Zealand English vowel space. Our findings based on vowel space analysis show that we can visualise how a speech synthesis model learns the vowel space of the database it is trained on. Perception tests confirmed that humans could perceive when a speech synthesis model has learned characteristics of the speech database it is training on. Using the vowel space as an intermediary evaluation helps understand what sounds are to be added to the training database and build speech synthesis models based on linguistics knowledge.

## Hierarchical and Multi-Scale Variational Autoencoder for Diverse and Natural Non-Autoregressive Text-to-Speech
- **Authors**: Jae-Sung Bae et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2204.04004](https://arxiv.org/abs/2204.04004)
- **Tags**: synthesis
- **Abstract**: In this paper, we propose a high-quality generative text-to-speech (TTS) system using an effective spectrum and excitation estimation method. Our previous research verified the effectiveness of the ExcitNet-based speech generation model in a parametric TTS framework. However, the challenge remains to build a high-quality speech synthesis system because auxiliary conditional features estimated by a simple deep neural network often contain large prediction errors, and the errors are inevitably propagated throughout the autoregressive generation process of the ExcitNet vocoder. To generate more natural speech signals, we exploited a sequence-to-sequence (seq2seq) acoustic model with an attention-based generative network (e.g., Tacotron 2) to estimate the condition parameters of the ExcitNet vocoder. Because the seq2seq acoustic model accurately estimates spectral parameters, and because the ExcitNet model effectively generates the corresponding time-domain excitation signals, combining these two models can synthesize natural speech signals. Furthermore, we verified the merit of the proposed method in producing expressive speech segments by adopting a global style token-based emotion embedding method. The experimental results confirmed that the proposed system significantly outperforms the systems with a similarly configured conventional WaveNet vocoder and our best prior parametric TTS counterpart.

