# TTS Papers - 2022-03-31

Total: 4

## An End-to-end Chinese Text Normalization Model based on Rule-guided Flat-Lattice Transformer
- **Authors**: Wenlin Dai et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2203.16954](https://arxiv.org/abs/2203.16954)
- **Tags**: llm-based
- **Abstract**: The recently developed pitch-controllable text-to-speech (TTS) model, i.e. FastPitch, was conditioned for the pitch contours. However, the quality of the synthesized speech degraded considerably for pitch values that deviated significantly from the average pitch; i.e. the ability to control pitch was limited. To address this issue, we propose two algorithms to improve the robustness of FastPitch. First, we propose a novel timbre-preserving pitch-shifting algorithm for natural pitch augmentation. Pitch-shifted speech samples sound more natural when using the proposed algorithm because the speaker's vocal timbre is maintained. Moreover, we propose a training algorithm that defines FastPitch using pitch-augmented speech datasets with different pitch ranges for the same sentence. The experimental results demonstrate that the proposed algorithms improve the pitch controllability of FastPitch.

## A Character-level Span-based Model for Mandarin Prosodic Structure Prediction
- **Authors**: Xueyuan Chen et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2203.16922](https://arxiv.org/abs/2203.16922)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: Recent advances in neural text-to-speech research have been dominated by two-stage pipelines utilizing low-level intermediate speech representation such as mel-spectrograms. However, such predetermined features are fundamentally limited, because they do not allow to exploit the full potential of a data-driven approach through learning hidden representations. For this reason, several end-to-end methods have been proposed. However, such models are harder to train and require a large number of high-quality recordings with transcriptions. Here, we propose WavThruVec - a two-stage architecture that resolves the bottleneck by using high-dimensional Wav2Vec 2.0 embeddings as intermediate speech representation. Since these hidden activations provide high-level linguistic features, they are more robust to noise. That allows us to utilize annotated speech datasets of a lower quality to train the first-stage module. At the same time, the second-stage component can be trained on large-scale untranscribed audio corpora, as Wav2Vec 2.0 embeddings are already time-aligned. This results in an increased generalization capability to out-of-vocabulary words, as well as to a better generalization to unseen speakers. We show that the proposed model not only matches the quality of state-of-the-art neural models, but also presents useful properties enabling tasks like voice conversion or zero-shot synthesis.

## Open Source MagicData-RAMC: A Rich Annotated Mandarin Conversational(RAMC) Speech Dataset
- **Authors**: Zehui Yang et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2203.16844](https://arxiv.org/abs/2203.16844)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: To simplify the generation process, several text-to-speech (TTS) systems implicitly learn intermediate latent representations instead of relying on predefined features (e.g., mel-spectrogram). However, their generation quality is unsatisfactory as these representations lack speech variances. In this paper, we improve TTS performance by adding \emph{prosody embeddings} to the latent representations. During training, we extract reference prosody embeddings from mel-spectrograms, and during inference, we estimate these embeddings from text using generative adversarial networks (GANs). Using GANs, we reliably estimate the prosody embeddings in a fast way, which have complex distributions due to the dynamic nature of speech. We also show that the prosody embeddings work as efficient features for learning a robust alignment between text and acoustic features. Our proposed model surpasses several publicly available models with less parameters and computational complexity in comparative experiments.

## NeuFA: Neural Network Based End-to-End Forced Alignment with Bidirectional Attention Mechanism
- **Authors**: Jingbei Li et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2203.16838](https://arxiv.org/abs/2203.16838)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: This paper introduces a high-quality rich annotated Mandarin conversational (RAMC) speech dataset called MagicData-RAMC. The MagicData-RAMC corpus contains 180 hours of conversational speech data recorded from native speakers of Mandarin Chinese over mobile phones with a sampling rate of 16 kHz. The dialogs in MagicData-RAMC are classified into 15 diversified domains and tagged with topic labels, ranging from science and technology to ordinary life. Accurate transcription and precise speaker voice activity timestamps are manually labeled for each sample. Speakers' detailed information is also provided. As a Mandarin speech dataset designed for dialog scenarios with high quality and rich annotations, MagicData-RAMC enriches the data diversity in the Mandarin speech community and allows extensive research on a series of speech-related tasks, including automatic speech recognition, speaker diarization, topic detection, keyword search, text-to-speech, etc. We also conduct several relevant tasks and provide experimental results to help evaluate the dataset.

