# TTS Papers - 2022-06-24

Total: 3

## SANE-TTS: Stable And Natural End-to-End Multilingual Text-to-Speech
- **Authors**: Hyunjae Cho et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2206.12132](https://arxiv.org/abs/2206.12132)
- **Tags**: multilingual, synthesis
- **Abstract**: Emotion classification of speech and assessment of the emotion strength are required in applications such as emotional text-to-speech and voice conversion. The emotion attribute ranking function based on Support Vector Machine (SVM) was proposed to predict emotion strength for emotional speech corpus. However, the trained ranking function doesn't generalize to new domains, which limits the scope of applications, especially for out-of-domain or unseen speech. In this paper, we propose a data-driven deep learning model, i.e. StrengthNet, to improve the generalization of emotion strength assessment for seen and unseen speech. This is achieved by the fusion of emotional data from various domains. We follow a multi-task learning network architecture that includes an acoustic encoder, a strength predictor, and an auxiliary emotion predictor. Experiments show that the predicted emotion strength of the proposed StrengthNet is highly correlated with ground truth scores for both seen and unseen speech. We release the source codes at: https://github.com/ttslr/StrengthNet.

## End-to-End Text-to-Speech Based on Latent Representation of Speaking Styles Using Spontaneous Dialogue
- **Authors**: Kentaro Mitsui et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2206.12040](https://arxiv.org/abs/2206.12040)
- **Tags**: expressive, synthesis
- **Abstract**: We develop machine translation and speech synthesis systems to complement the efforts of revitalizing Judeo-Spanish, the exiled language of Sephardic Jews, which survived for centuries, but now faces the threat of extinction in the digital age. Building on resources created by the Sephardic community of Turkey and elsewhere, we create corpora and tools that would help preserve this language for future generations. For machine translation, we first develop a Spanish to Judeo-Spanish rule-based machine translation system, in order to generate large volumes of synthetic parallel data in the relevant language pairs: Turkish, English and Spanish. Then, we train baseline neural machine translation engines using this synthetic data and authentic parallel data created from translations by the Sephardic community. For text-to-speech synthesis, we present a 3.5 hour single speaker speech corpus for building a neural speech synthesis engine. Resources, model weights and online inference engines are shared publicly.

## Towards Optimizing OCR for Accessibility
- **Authors**: Peya Mowar et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2206.10254](https://arxiv.org/abs/2206.10254)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: In this paper, we present SANE-TTS, a stable and natural end-to-end multilingual TTS model. By the difficulty of obtaining multilingual corpus for given speaker, training multilingual TTS model with monolingual corpora is unavoidable. We introduce speaker regularization loss that improves speech naturalness during cross-lingual synthesis as well as domain adversarial training, which is applied in other multilingual TTS models. Furthermore, by adding speaker regularization loss, replacing speaker embedding with zero vector in duration predictor stabilizes cross-lingual inference. With this replacement, our model generates speeches with moderate rhythm regardless of source speaker in cross-lingual synthesis. In MOS evaluation, SANE-TTS achieves naturalness score above 3.80 both in cross-lingual and intralingual synthesis, where the ground truth score is 3.99. Also, SANE-TTS maintains speaker similarity close to that of ground truth even in cross-lingual inference. Audio samples are available on our web page.

