# TTS Papers - 2022-05-09

Total: 2

## Cross-Utterance Conditioned VAE for Non-Autoregressive Text-to-Speech
- **Authors**: Yang Li et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2205.04120](https://arxiv.org/abs/2205.04120)
- **Tags**: synthesis
- **Abstract**: Data augmentation via voice conversion (VC) has been successfully applied to low-resource expressive text-to-speech (TTS) when only neutral data for the target speaker are available. Although the quality of VC is crucial for this approach, it is challenging to learn a stable VC model because the amount of data is limited in low-resource scenarios, and highly expressive speech has large acoustic variety. To address this issue, we propose a novel data augmentation method that combines pitch-shifting and VC techniques. Because pitch-shift data augmentation enables the coverage of a variety of pitch dynamics, it greatly stabilizes training for both VC and TTS models, even when only 1,000 utterances of the target speaker's neutral data are available. Subjective test results showed that a FastSpeech 2-based emotional TTS system with the proposed method improved naturalness and emotional similarity compared with conventional methods.

## ReCAB-VAE: Gumbel-Softmax Variational Inference Based on Analytic Divergence
- **Authors**: Sangshin Oh et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2205.04104](https://arxiv.org/abs/2205.04104)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: Neural source-filter (NSF) models are deep neural networks that produce waveforms given input acoustic features. They use dilated-convolution-based neural filter modules to filter sine-based excitation for waveform generation, which is different from WaveNet and flow-based models. One of the NSF models, called harmonic-plus-noise NSF (h-NSF) model, uses separate pairs of source and neural filters to generate harmonic and noise waveform components. It is close to WaveNet in terms of speech quality while being superior in generation speed. The h-NSF model can be improved even further. While h-NSF merges the harmonic and noise components using pre-defined digital low- and high-pass filters, it is well known that the maximum voice frequency (MVF) that separates the periodic and aperiodic spectral bands are time-variant. Therefore, we propose a new h-NSF model with time-variant and trainable MVF. We parameterize the digital low- and high-pass filters as windowed-sinc filters and predict their cut-off frequency (i.e., MVF) from the input acoustic features. Our experiments demonstrated that the new model can predict a good trajectory of the MVF and produce high-quality speech for a text-to-speech synthesis system.

