# TTS Papers - 2022-06-29

Total: 3

## Improving Deliberation by Text-Only and Semi-Supervised Training
- **Authors**: Ke Hu et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2206.14716](https://arxiv.org/abs/2206.14716)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: Recent advances in synthetic speech quality have enabled us to train text-to-speech (TTS) systems by using synthetic corpora. However, merely increasing the amount of synthetic data is not always advantageous for improving training efficiency. Our aim in this study is to selectively choose synthetic data that are beneficial to the training process. In the proposed method, we first adopt a variational autoencoder whose posterior distribution is utilized to extract latent features representing acoustic similarity between the recorded and synthetic corpora. By using those learned features, we then train a ranking support vector machine (RankSVM) that is well known for effectively ranking relative attributes among binary classes. By setting the recorded and synthetic ones as two opposite classes, RankSVM is used to determine how the synthesized speech is acoustically similar to the recorded data. Then, synthetic TTS data, whose distribution is close to the recorded data, are selected from large-scale synthetic corpora. By using these data for retraining the TTS model, the synthetic quality can be significantly improved. Objective and subjective evaluation results show the superiority of the proposed method over the conventional methods.

## Simple and Effective Multi-sentence TTS with Expressive and Coherent Prosody
- **Authors**: Peter Makarov et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2206.14643](https://arxiv.org/abs/2206.14643)
- **Tags**: expressive, synthesis
- **Abstract**: Automatic methods to predict Mean Opinion Score (MOS) of listeners have been researched to assure the quality of Text-to-Speech systems. Many previous studies focus on architectural advances (e.g. MBNet, LDNet, etc.) to capture relations between spectral features and MOS in a more effective way and achieved high accuracy. However, the optimal representation in terms of generalization capability still largely remains unknown. To this end, we compare the performance of Self-Supervised Learning (SSL) features obtained by the wav2vec framework to that of spectral features such as magnitude of spectrogram and melspectrogram. Moreover, we propose to combine the SSL features and features which we believe to retain essential information to the automatic MOS to compensate each other for their drawbacks. We conduct comprehensive experiments on a large-scale listening test corpus collected from past Blizzard and Voice Conversion Challenges. We found that the wav2vec feature set showed the best generalization even though the given ground-truth was not always reliable. Furthermore, we found that the combinations performed the best and analyzed how they bridged the gap between spectral and the wav2vec feature sets.

## DRSpeech: Degradation-Robust Text-to-Speech Synthesis with Frame-Level and Utterance-Level Acoustic Representation Learning
- **Authors**: Takaaki Saeki et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2203.15683](https://arxiv.org/abs/2203.15683)
- **Tags**: synthesis
- **Abstract**: We study the problem of syncing the lip movement in a video with the audio stream. Our solution finds an optimal alignment using a dual-domain recurrent neural network that is trained on synthetic data we generate by dropping and duplicating video frames. Once the alignment is found, we modify the video in order to sync the two sources. Our method is shown to greatly outperform the literature methods on a variety of existing and new benchmarks. As an application, we demonstrate our ability to robustly align text-to-speech generated audio with an existing video stream. Our code and samples are available at https://github.com/itsyoavshalev/End-to-End-Lip-Synchronization-with-a-Temporal-AutoEncoder.

