# TTS Papers - 2022-10-27

Total: 3

## Explicit Intensity Control for Accented Text-to-speech
- **Authors**: Rui Liu et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2210.15364](https://arxiv.org/abs/2210.15364)
- **Tags**: synthesis
- **Abstract**: Whereas cryptography easily arouses attacks by means of encrypting a secret message into a suspicious form, steganography is advantageous for its resilience to attacks by concealing the message in an innocent-looking cover signal. Minimal distortion steganography, one of the mainstream steganography frameworks, embeds messages while minimizing the distortion caused by the modification on the cover elements. Due to the unavailability of the original cover signal for the receiver, message embedding is realized by finding the coset leader of the syndrome function of steganographic codes migrated from channel coding, which is complex and has limited performance. Fortunately, deep generative models and the robust semantic of generated data make it possible for the receiver to perfectly reproduce the cover signal from the stego signal. With this advantage, we propose cover-reproducible steganography where the source coding, e.g., arithmetic coding, serves as the steganographic code. Specifically, the decoding process of arithmetic coding is used for message embedding and its encoding process is regarded as message extraction. Taking text-to-speech and text-to-image synthesis tasks as two examples, we illustrate the feasibility of cover-reproducible steganography. Steganalysis experiments and theoretical analysis are conducted to demonstrate that the proposed methods outperform the existing methods in most cases.

## FCTalker: Fine and Coarse Grained Context Modeling for Expressive Conversational Speech Synthesis
- **Authors**: Yifan Hu et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2210.15360](https://arxiv.org/abs/2210.15360)
- **Tags**: expressive, synthesis
- **Abstract**: Expressive text-to-speech (TTS) can synthesize a new speaking style by imiating prosody and timbre from a reference audio, which faces the following challenges: (1) The highly dynamic prosody information in the reference audio is difficult to extract, especially, when the reference audio contains background noise. (2) The TTS systems should have good generalization for unseen speaking styles. In this paper, we present a \textbf{no}ise-\textbf{r}obust \textbf{e}xpressive TTS model (NoreSpeech), which can robustly transfer speaking style in a noisy reference utterance to synthesized speech. Specifically, our NoreSpeech includes several components: (1) a novel DiffStyle module, which leverages powerful probabilistic denoising diffusion models to learn noise-agnostic speaking style features from a teacher model by knowledge distillation; (2) a VQ-VAE block, which maps the style features into a controllable quantized latent space for improving the generalization of style transfer; and (3) a straight-forward but effective parameter-free text-style alignment module, which enables NoreSpeech to transfer style to a textual input from a length-mismatched reference utterance. Experiments demonstrate that NoreSpeech is more effective than previous expressive TTS models in noise environments. Audio samples and code are available at: \href{http://dongchaoyang.top/NoreSpeech\_demo/}{http://dongchaoyang.top/NoreSpeech\_demo/}

## Fine-grained Noise Control for Multispeaker Speech Synthesis
- **Authors**: Karolos Nikitaras et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2204.05070](https://arxiv.org/abs/2204.05070)
- **Tags**: synthesis
- **Abstract**: Although deep learning and end-to-end models have been widely used and shown superiority in automatic speech recognition (ASR) and text-to-speech (TTS) synthesis, state-of-the-art forced alignment (FA) models are still based on hidden Markov model (HMM). HMM has limited view of contextual information and is developed with long pipelines, leading to error accumulation and unsatisfactory performance. Inspired by the capability of attention mechanism in capturing long term contextual information and learning alignments in ASR and TTS, we propose a neural network based end-to-end forced aligner called NeuFA, in which a novel bidirectional attention mechanism plays an essential role. NeuFA integrates the alignment learning of both ASR and TTS tasks in a unified framework by learning bidirectional alignment information from a shared attention matrix in the proposed bidirectional attention mechanism. Alignments are extracted from the learnt attention weights and optimized by the ASR, TTS and FA tasks in a multi-task learning manner. Experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed model, with mean absolute error on test set drops from 25.8 ms to 23.7 ms at word level, and from 17.0 ms to 15.7 ms at phoneme level compared with state-of-the-art HMM based model.

