# TTS Papers - 2022-10-20

Total: 2

## Text Enhancement for Paragraph Processing in End-to-End Code-switching TTS
- **Authors**: Chunyu Qiang et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2210.11429](https://arxiv.org/abs/2210.11429)
- **Tags**: synthesis
- **Abstract**: Speech is the fundamental mode of human communication, and its synthesis has long been a core priority in human-computer interaction research. In recent years, machines have managed to master the art of generating speech that is understandable by humans. But the linguistic content of an utterance encompasses only a part of its meaning. Affect, or expressivity, has the capacity to turn speech into a medium capable of conveying intimate thoughts, feelings, and emotions -- aspects that are essential for engaging and naturalistic interpersonal communication. While the goal of imparting expressivity to synthesised utterances has so far remained elusive, following recent advances in text-to-speech synthesis, a paradigm shift is well under way in the fields of affective speech synthesis and conversion as well. Deep learning, as the technology which underlies most of the recent advances in artificial intelligence, is spearheading these efforts. In the present overview, we outline ongoing trends and summarise state-of-the-art approaches in an attempt to provide a comprehensive overview of this exciting field.

## Anonymizing Speech with Generative Adversarial Networks to Preserve Speaker Privacy
- **Authors**: Sarina Meyer et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2210.07002](https://arxiv.org/abs/2210.07002)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: Several fully end-to-end text-to-speech (TTS) models have been proposed that have shown better performance compared to cascade models (i.e., training acoustic and vocoder models separately). However, they often generate unstable pitch contour with audible artifacts when the dataset contains emotional attributes, i.e., large diversity of pronunciation and prosody. To address this problem, we propose Period VITS, a novel end-to-end TTS model that incorporates an explicit periodicity generator. In the proposed method, we introduce a frame pitch predictor that predicts prosodic features, such as pitch and voicing flags, from the input text. From these features, the proposed periodicity generator produces a sample-level sinusoidal source that enables the waveform decoder to accurately reproduce the pitch. Finally, the entire model is jointly optimized in an end-to-end manner with variational inference and adversarial objectives. As a result, the decoder becomes capable of generating more stable, expressive, and natural output waveforms. The experimental results showed that the proposed model significantly outperforms baseline models in terms of naturalness, with improved pitch stability in the generated samples.

