# TTS Papers - 2022-06-30

Total: 3

## R-MelNet: Reduced Mel-Spectral Modeling for Neural TTS
- **Authors**: Kyle Kastner et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2206.15276](https://arxiv.org/abs/2206.15276)
- **Tags**: synthesis
- **Abstract**: The research community has long studied computer-assisted pronunciation training (CAPT) methods in non-native speech. Researchers focused on studying various model architectures, such as Bayesian networks and deep learning methods, as well as on the analysis of different representations of the speech signal. Despite significant progress in recent years, existing CAPT methods are not able to detect pronunciation errors with high accuracy (only 60\% precision at 40\%-80\% recall). One of the key problems is the low availability of mispronounced speech that is needed for the reliable training of pronunciation error detection models. If we had a generative model that could mimic non-native speech and produce any amount of training data, then the task of detecting pronunciation errors would be much easier. We present three innovative techniques based on phoneme-to-phoneme (P2P), text-to-speech (T2S), and speech-to-speech (S2S) conversion to generate correctly pronounced and mispronounced synthetic speech. We show that these techniques not only improve the accuracy of three machine learning models for detecting pronunciation errors but also help establish a new state-of-the-art in the field. Earlier studies have used simple speech generation techniques such as P2P conversion, but only as an additional mechanism to improve the accuracy of pronunciation error detection. We, on the other hand, consider speech generation to be the first-class method of detecting pronunciation errors. The effectiveness of these techniques is assessed in the tasks of detecting pronunciation and lexical stress errors. Non-native English speech corpora of German, Italian, and Polish speakers are used in the evaluations. The best proposed S2S technique improves the accuracy of detecting pronunciation errors in AUC metric by 41\% from 0.528 to 0.749 compared to the state-of-the-art approach.

## TTS-by-TTS 2: Data-selective augmentation for neural speech synthesis using ranking support vector machine with variational autoencoder
- **Authors**: Eunwoo Song et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2206.14984](https://arxiv.org/abs/2206.14984)
- **Tags**: synthesis
- **Abstract**: This paper studies a transferable phoneme embedding framework that aims to deal with the cross-lingual text-to-speech (TTS) problem under the few-shot setting. Transfer learning is a common approach when it comes to few-shot learning since training from scratch on few-shot training data is bound to overfit. Still, we find that the naive transfer learning approach fails to adapt to unseen languages under extremely few-shot settings, where less than 8 minutes of data is provided. We deal with the problem by proposing a framework that consists of a phoneme-based TTS model and a codebook module to project phonemes from different languages into a learned latent space. Furthermore, by utilizing phoneme-level averaged self-supervised learned features, we effectively improve the quality of synthesized speeches. Experiments show that using 4 utterances, which is about 30 seconds of data, is enough to synthesize intelligible speech when adapting to an unseen language using our framework.

## VQTTS: High-Fidelity Text-to-Speech Synthesis with Self-Supervised VQ Acoustic Feature
- **Authors**: Chenpeng Du et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2204.00768](https://arxiv.org/abs/2204.00768)
- **Tags**: synthesis
- **Abstract**: In this paper, we present our first experiments in text-to-articulation prediction, using ultrasound tongue image targets. We extend a traditional (vocoder-based) DNN-TTS framework with predicting PCA-compressed ultrasound images, of which the continuous tongue motion can be reconstructed in synchrony with synthesized speech. We use the data of eight speakers, train fully connected and recurrent neural networks, and show that FC-DNNs are more suitable for the prediction of sequential data than LSTMs, in case of limited training data. Objective experiments and visualized predictions show that the proposed solution is feasible and the generated ultrasound videos are close to natural tongue movement. Articulatory movement prediction from text input can be useful for audiovisual speech synthesis or computer-assisted pronunciation training.

