# TTS Papers - 2022-11-17

Total: 2

## Back-Translation-Style Data Augmentation for Mandarin Chinese Polyphone Disambiguation
- **Authors**: Chunyu Qiang et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2211.09495](https://arxiv.org/abs/2211.09495)
- **Tags**: expressive
- **Abstract**: Although current neural text-to-speech (TTS) models are able to generate high-quality speech, intensity controllable emotional TTS is still a challenging task. Most existing methods need external optimizations for intensity calculation, leading to suboptimal results or degraded quality. In this paper, we propose EmoDiff, a diffusion-based TTS model where emotion intensity can be manipulated by a proposed soft-label guidance technique derived from classifier guidance. Specifically, instead of being guided with a one-hot vector for the specified emotion, EmoDiff is guided with a soft label where the value of the specified emotion and \textit{Neutral} is set to $α$ and $1-α$ respectively. The $α$ here represents the emotion intensity and can be chosen from 0 to 1. Our experiments show that EmoDiff can precisely control the emotion intensity while maintaining high voice quality. Moreover, diverse speech with specified emotion intensity can be generated by sampling in the reverse denoising process.

## NANSY++: Unified Voice Synthesis with Neural Analysis and Synthesis
- **Authors**: Hyeong-Seok Choi et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2211.09407](https://arxiv.org/abs/2211.09407)
- **Tags**: synthesis
- **Abstract**: Denoising Diffusion Probabilistic Models (DDPMs) are emerging in text-to-speech (TTS) synthesis because of their strong capability of generating high-fidelity samples. However, their iterative refinement process in high-dimensional data space results in slow inference speed, which restricts their application in real-time systems. Previous works have explored speeding up by minimizing the number of inference steps but at the cost of sample quality. In this work, to improve the inference speed for DDPM-based TTS model while achieving high sample quality, we propose ResGrad, a lightweight diffusion model which learns to refine the output spectrogram of an existing TTS model (e.g., FastSpeech 2) by predicting the residual between the model output and the corresponding ground-truth speech. ResGrad has several advantages: 1) Compare with other acceleration methods for DDPM which need to synthesize speech from scratch, ResGrad reduces the complexity of task by changing the generation target from ground-truth mel-spectrogram to the residual, resulting into a more lightweight model and thus a smaller real-time factor. 2) ResGrad is employed in the inference process of the existing TTS model in a plug-and-play way, without re-training this model. We verify ResGrad on the single-speaker dataset LJSpeech and two more challenging datasets with multiple speakers (LibriTTS) and high sampling rate (VCTK). Experimental results show that in comparison with other speed-up methods of DDPMs: 1) ResGrad achieves better sample quality with the same inference speed measured by real-time factor; 2) with similar speech quality, ResGrad synthesizes speech faster than baseline methods by more than 10 times. Audio samples are available at https://resgrad1.github.io/.

