# TTS Papers - 2023-09-04

Total: 2

## A Comparative Analysis of Pretrained Language Models for Text-to-Speech
- **Authors**: Marcel Granero-Moya et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2309.01576](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.01576)
- **Tags**: multilingual, synthesis
- **Abstract**: Affect is an emotional characteristic encompassing valence, arousal, and intensity, and is a crucial attribute for enabling authentic conversations. While existing text-to-speech (TTS) and speech-to-speech systems rely on strength embedding vectors and global style tokens to capture emotions, these models represent emotions as a component of style or represent them in discrete categories. We propose AffectEcho, an emotion translation model, that uses a Vector Quantized codebook to model emotions within a quantized space featuring five levels of affect intensity to capture complex nuances and subtle differences in the same emotion. The quantized emotional embeddings are implicitly derived from spoken speech samples, eliminating the need for one-hot vectors or explicit strength embeddings. Experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach in controlling the emotions of generated speech while preserving identity, style, and emotional cadence unique to each speaker. We showcase the language-independent emotion modeling capability of the quantized emotional embeddings learned from a bilingual (English and Chinese) speech corpus with an emotion transfer task from a reference speech to a target speech. We achieve state-of-art results on both qualitative and quantitative metrics.

## Rep2wav: Noise Robust text-to-speech Using self-supervised representations
- **Authors**: Qiushi Zhu et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2308.14553](https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.14553)
- **Tags**: synthesis
- **Abstract**: Neural networks have been able to generate high-quality single-sentence speech. However, it remains a challenge concerning audio-book speech synthesis due to the intra-paragraph correlation of semantic and acoustic features as well as variable styles. In this paper, we propose a highly expressive paragraph speech synthesis system with a multi-step variational autoencoder, called EP-MSTTS. EP-MSTTS is the first VITS-based paragraph speech synthesis model and models the variable style of paragraph speech at five levels: frame, phoneme, word, sentence, and paragraph. We also propose a series of improvements to enhance the performance of this hierarchical model. In addition, we directly train EP-MSTTS on speech sliced by paragraph rather than sentence. Experiment results on the single-speaker French audiobook corpus released at Blizzard Challenge 2023 show EP-MSTTS obtains better performance than baseline models.

