# TTS Papers - 2023-06-14

Total: 2

## Improving Code-Switching and Named Entity Recognition in ASR with Speech Editing based Data Augmentation
- **Authors**: Zheng Liang et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2306.08588](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.08588)
- **Tags**: editing
- **Abstract**: Turn-taking is a fundamental aspect of human communication where speakers convey their intention to either hold, or yield, their turn through prosodic cues. Using the recently proposed Voice Activity Projection model, we propose an automatic evaluation approach to measure these aspects for conversational speech synthesis. We investigate the ability of three commercial, and two open-source, Text-To-Speech (TTS) systems ability to generate turn-taking cues over simulated turns. By varying the stimuli, or controlling the prosody, we analyze the models performances. We show that while commercial TTS largely provide appropriate cues, they often produce ambiguous signals, and that further improvements are possible. TTS, trained on read or spontaneous speech, produce strong turn-hold but weak turn-yield cues. We argue that this approach, that focus on functional aspects of interaction, provides a useful addition to other important speech metrics, such as intelligibility and naturalness.

## Towards Building Voice-based Conversational Recommender Systems: Datasets, Potential Solutions, and Prospects
- **Authors**: Xinghua Qu et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2306.08219](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.08219)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: State-of-the-art non-autoregressive text-to-speech (TTS) models based on FastSpeech 2 can efficiently synthesise high-fidelity and natural speech. For expressive speech datasets however, we observe characteristic audio distortions. We demonstrate that such artefacts are introduced to the vocoder reconstruction by over-smooth mel-spectrogram predictions, which are induced by the choice of mean-squared-error (MSE) loss for training the mel-spectrogram decoder. With MSE loss FastSpeech 2 is limited to learn conditional averages of the training distribution, which might not lie close to a natural sample if the distribution still appears multimodal after all conditioning signals. To alleviate this problem, we introduce TVC-GMM, a mixture model of Trivariate-Chain Gaussian distributions, to model the residual multimodality. TVC-GMM reduces spectrogram smoothness and improves perceptual audio quality in particular for expressive datasets as shown by both objective and subjective evaluation.

