# TTS Papers - 2023-12-06

Total: 1

## Schrodinger Bridges Beat Diffusion Models on Text-to-Speech Synthesis
- **Authors**: Zehua Chen et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2312.03491](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03491)
- **Tags**: synthesis
- **Abstract**: Text-to-speech (TTS) systems are an important component in voice-based e-commerce applications. These applications include end-to-end voice assistant and customer experience (CX) voice bot. Code-mixed TTS is also relevant in these applications since the product names are commonly described in English while the surrounding text is in a regional language. In this work, we describe our approaches for production quality code-mixed Hindi-English TTS systems built for e-commerce applications. We propose a data-oriented approach by utilizing monolingual data sets in individual languages. We leverage a transliteration model to convert the Roman text into a common Devanagari script and then combine both datasets for training. We show that such single script bi-lingual training without any code-mixing works well for pure code-mixed test sets. We further present an exhaustive evaluation of single-speaker adaptation and multi-speaker training with Tacotron2 + Waveglow setup to show that the former approach works better. These approaches are also coupled with transfer learning and decoder-only fine-tuning to improve performance. We compare these approaches with the Google TTS and report a positive CMOS score of 0.02 with the proposed transfer learning approach. We also perform low-resource voice adaptation experiments to show that a new voice can be onboarded with just 3 hrs of data. This highlights the importance of our pre-trained models in resource-constrained settings. This subjective evaluation is performed on a large number of out-of-domain pure code-mixed sentences to demonstrate the high quality of the systems.

