# TTS Papers - 2023-04-23

Total: 2

## DiffVoice: Text-to-Speech with Latent Diffusion
- **Authors**: Zhijun Liu et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2304.11750](https://arxiv.org/abs/2304.11750)
- **Tags**: synthesis
- **Abstract**: In this paper we propose a novel virtual simulation-pilot engine for speeding up air traffic controller (ATCo) training by integrating different state-of-the-art artificial intelligence (AI) based tools. The virtual simulation-pilot engine receives spoken communications from ATCo trainees, and it performs automatic speech recognition and understanding. Thus, it goes beyond only transcribing the communication and can also understand its meaning. The output is subsequently sent to a response generator system, which resembles the spoken read back that pilots give to the ATCo trainees. The overall pipeline is composed of the following submodules: (i) automatic speech recognition (ASR) system that transforms audio into a sequence of words; (ii) high-level air traffic control (ATC) related entity parser that understands the transcribed voice communication; and (iii) a text-to-speech submodule that generates a spoken utterance that resembles a pilot based on the situation of the dialogue. Our system employs state-of-the-art AI-based tools such as Wav2Vec 2.0, Conformer, BERT and Tacotron models. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work fully based on open-source ATC resources and AI tools. In addition, we have developed a robust and modular system with optional submodules that can enhance the system's performance by incorporating real-time surveillance data, metadata related to exercises (such as sectors or runways), or even introducing a deliberate read-back error to train ATCo trainees to identify them. Our ASR system can reach as low as 5.5% and 15.9% word error rates (WER) on high and low-quality ATC audio. We also demonstrate that adding surveillance data into the ASR can yield callsign detection accuracy of more than 96%.

## SAR: Self-Supervised Anti-Distortion Representation for End-To-End Speech Model
- **Authors**: Jianzong Wang et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2304.11547](https://arxiv.org/abs/2304.11547)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: Fine-tuning is widely used as the default algorithm for transfer learning from pre-trained models. Parameter inefficiency can however arise when, during transfer learning, all the parameters of a large pre-trained model need to be updated for individual downstream tasks. As the number of parameters grows, fine-tuning is prone to overfitting and catastrophic forgetting. In addition, full fine-tuning can become prohibitively expensive when the model is used for many tasks. To mitigate this issue, parameter-efficient transfer learning algorithms, such as adapters and prefix tuning, have been proposed as a way to introduce a few trainable parameters that can be plugged into large pre-trained language models such as BERT, and HuBERT. In this paper, we introduce the Speech UndeRstanding Evaluation (SURE) benchmark for parameter-efficient learning for various speech-processing tasks. Additionally, we introduce a new adapter, ConvAdapter, based on 1D convolution. We show that ConvAdapter outperforms the standard adapters while showing comparable performance against prefix tuning and LoRA with only 0.94% of trainable parameters on some of the task in SURE. We further explore the effectiveness of parameter efficient transfer learning for speech synthesis task such as Text-to-Speech (TTS).

