# TTS Papers - 2023-09-29

Total: 2

## Low-Resource Self-Supervised Learning with SSL-Enhanced TTS
- **Authors**: Po-chun Hsu et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2309.17020](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.17020)
- **Tags**: synthesis
- **Abstract**: Generative Pre-trained Transformer (GPT) models have achieved remarkable performance on various natural language processing tasks, and have shown great potential as backbones for audio-and-text large language models (LLMs). Previous mainstream audio-and-text LLMs use discrete audio tokens to represent both input and output audio; however, they suffer from performance degradation on tasks such as automatic speech recognition, speech-to-text translation, and speech enhancement over models using continuous speech features. In this paper, we propose LauraGPT, a novel unified audio-and-text GPT-based LLM for audio recognition, understanding, and generation. LauraGPT is a versatile LLM that can process both audio and text inputs and generate outputs in either modalities. We propose a novel data representation that combines continuous and discrete features for audio: LauraGPT encodes input audio into continuous representations using an audio encoder and generates output audio from discrete codec codes. We propose a one-step codec vocoder to overcome the prediction challenge caused by the multimodal distribution of codec tokens. We fine-tune LauraGPT using supervised multi-task learning. Extensive experiments show that LauraGPT consistently achieves comparable to superior performance compared to strong baselines on a wide range of audio tasks related to content, semantics, paralinguistics, and audio-signal analysis, such as automatic speech recognition, speech-to-text translation, text-to-speech synthesis, speech enhancement, automated audio captioning, speech emotion recognition, and spoken language understanding.

## Synthetic Speech Detection Based on Temporal Consistency and Distribution of Speaker Features
- **Authors**: Yuxiang Zhang et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2309.16954](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.16954)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: The diffusion models including Denoising Diffusion Probabilistic Models (DDPM) and score-based generative models have demonstrated excellent performance in speech synthesis tasks. However, its effectiveness comes at the cost of numerous sampling steps, resulting in prolonged sampling time required to synthesize high-quality speech. This drawback hinders its practical applicability in real-world scenarios. In this paper, we introduce ReFlow-TTS, a novel rectified flow based method for speech synthesis with high-fidelity. Specifically, our ReFlow-TTS is simply an Ordinary Differential Equation (ODE) model that transports Gaussian distribution to the ground-truth Mel-spectrogram distribution by straight line paths as much as possible. Furthermore, our proposed approach enables high-quality speech synthesis with a single sampling step and eliminates the need for training a teacher model. Our experiments on LJSpeech Dataset show that our ReFlow-TTS method achieves the best performance compared with other diffusion based models. And the ReFlow-TTS with one step sampling achieves competitive performance compared with existing one-step TTS models.

