# TTS Papers - 2023-08-31

Total: 4

## QS-TTS: Towards Semi-Supervised Text-to-Speech Synthesis via Vector-Quantized Self-Supervised Speech Representation Learning
- **Authors**: Haohan Guo et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2309.00126](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.00126)
- **Tags**: synthesis
- **Abstract**: We present a scalable method to produce high quality emphasis for text-to-speech (TTS) that does not require recordings or annotations. Many TTS models include a phoneme duration model. A simple but effective method to achieve emphasized speech consists in increasing the predicted duration of the emphasised word. We show that this is significantly better than spectrogram modification techniques improving naturalness by $7.3\%$ and correct testers' identification of the emphasized word in a sentence by $40\%$ on a reference female en-US voice. We show that this technique significantly closes the gap to methods that require explicit recordings. The method proved to be scalable and preferred in all four languages tested (English, Spanish, Italian, German), for different voices and multiple speaking styles.

## Towards Spontaneous Style Modeling with Semi-supervised Pre-training for Conversational Text-to-Speech Synthesis
- **Authors**: Weiqin Li et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2308.16593](https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.16593)
- **Tags**: expressive, synthesis
- **Abstract**: For fine-grained generation and recognition tasks such as minimally-supervised text-to-speech (TTS), voice conversion (VC), and automatic speech recognition (ASR), the intermediate representations extracted from speech should serve as a "bridge" between text and acoustic information, containing information from both modalities. The semantic content is emphasized, while the paralinguistic information such as speaker identity and acoustic details should be de-emphasized. However, existing methods for extracting fine-grained intermediate representations from speech suffer from issues of excessive redundancy and dimension explosion. Contrastive learning is a good method for modeling intermediate representations from two modalities. However, existing contrastive learning methods in the audio field focus on extracting global descriptive information for downstream audio classification tasks, making them unsuitable for TTS, VC, and ASR tasks. To address these issues, we propose a method named "Contrastive Token-Acoustic Pretraining (CTAP)", which uses two encoders to bring phoneme and speech into a joint multimodal space, learning how to connect phoneme and speech at the frame level. The CTAP model is trained on 210k speech and phoneme pairs, achieving minimally-supervised TTS, VC, and ASR. The proposed CTAP method offers a promising solution for fine-grained generation and recognition downstream tasks in speech processing. We provide a website with audio samples.

## Improving Mandarin Prosodic Structure Prediction with Multi-level Contextual Information
- **Authors**: Jie Chen et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2308.16577](https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.16577)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: This paper describes the DeepZen text to speech (TTS) system for Blizzard Challenge 2023. The goal of this challenge is to synthesise natural and high-quality speech in French, from a large monospeaker dataset (hub task) and from a smaller dataset by speaker adaptation (spoke task). We participated to both tasks with the same model architecture. Our approach has been to use an auto-regressive model, which retains an advantage for generating natural sounding speech but to improve prosodic control in several ways. Similarly to non-attentive Tacotron, the model uses a duration predictor and gaussian upsampling at inference, but with a simpler unsupervised training. We also model the speaking style at both sentence and word levels by extracting global and local style tokens from the reference speech. At inference, the global and local style tokens are predicted from a BERT model run on text. This BERT model is also used to predict specific pronunciation features like schwa elision and optional liaisons. Finally, a modified version of HifiGAN trained on a large public dataset and fine-tuned on the target voices is used to generate speech waveform. Our team is identified as O in the the Blizzard evaluation and MUSHRA test results show that our system performs second ex aequo in both hub task (median score of 0.75) and spoke task (median score of 0.68), over 18 and 14 participants, respectively.

## LightGrad: Lightweight Diffusion Probabilistic Model for Text-to-Speech
- **Authors**: Jie Chen et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2308.16569](https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.16569)
- **Tags**: synthesis
- **Abstract**: The dialogue experience with conversational agents can be greatly enhanced with multimodal and immersive interactions in virtual reality. In this work, we present an open-source architecture with the goal of simplifying the development of conversational agents operating in virtual environments. The architecture offers the possibility of plugging in conversational agents of different domains and adding custom or cloud-based Speech-To-Text and Text-To-Speech models to make the interaction voice-based. Using this architecture, we present two conversational prototypes operating in the digital health domain developed in Unity for both non-immersive displays and VR headsets.

