# TTS Papers - 2023-05-23

Total: 3

## EfficientSpeech: An On-Device Text to Speech Model
- **Authors**: Rowel Atienza et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2305.13905](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.13905)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: The increasing adoption of text-to-speech technologies has led to a growing demand for natural and emotive voices that adapt to a conversation's context and emotional tone. The Emotive Narrative Storytelling (EMNS) corpus is a unique speech dataset created to enhance conversations' expressiveness and emotive quality in interactive narrative-driven systems. The corpus consists of a 2.3-hour recording featuring a female speaker delivering labelled utterances. It encompasses eight acted emotional states, evenly distributed with a variance of 0.68%, along with expressiveness levels and natural language descriptions with word emphasis labels. The evaluation of audio samples from different datasets revealed that the EMNS corpus achieved the highest average scores in accurately conveying emotions and demonstrating expressiveness. It outperformed other datasets in conveying shared emotions and achieved comparable levels of genuineness. A classification task confirmed the accurate representation of intended emotions in the corpus, with participants recognising the recordings as genuine and expressive. Additionally, the availability of the dataset collection tool under the Apache 2.0 License simplifies remote speech data collection for researchers.

## ZET-Speech: Zero-shot adaptive Emotion-controllable Text-to-Speech Synthesis with Diffusion and Style-based Models
- **Authors**: Minki Kang et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2305.13831](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.13831)
- **Tags**: zero-shot, expressive, synthesis
- **Abstract**: State of the art (SOTA) neural text to speech (TTS) models can generate natural-sounding synthetic voices. These models are characterized by large memory footprints and substantial number of operations due to the long-standing focus on speech quality with cloud inference in mind. Neural TTS models are generally not designed to perform standalone speech syntheses on resource-constrained and no Internet access edge devices. In this work, an efficient neural TTS called EfficientSpeech that synthesizes speech on an ARM CPU in real-time is proposed. EfficientSpeech uses a shallow non-autoregressive pyramid-structure transformer forming a U-Network. EfficientSpeech has 266k parameters and consumes 90 MFLOPS only or about 1% of the size and amount of computation in modern compact models such as Mixer-TTS. EfficientSpeech achieves an average mel generation real-time factor of 104.3 on an RPi4. Human evaluation shows only a slight degradation in audio quality as compared to FastSpeech2.

## Better speech synthesis through scaling
- **Authors**: James Betker et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2305.07243](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.07243)
- **Tags**: synthesis
- **Abstract**: Spoken keyword spotting (KWS) is the task of identifying a keyword in an audio stream and is widely used in smart devices at the edge in order to activate voice assistants and perform hands-free tasks. The task is daunting as there is a need, on the one hand, to achieve high accuracy while at the same time ensuring that such systems continue to run efficiently on low power and possibly limited computational capabilities devices. This work presents AraSpot for Arabic keyword spotting trained on 40 Arabic keywords, using different online data augmentation, and introducing ConformerGRU model architecture. Finally, we further improve the performance of the model by training a text-to-speech model for synthetic data generation. AraSpot achieved a State-of-the-Art SOTA 99.59% result outperforming previous approaches.

