# TTS Papers - 2023-12-27

Total: 2

## AE-Flow: AutoEncoder Normalizing Flow
- **Authors**: Jakub Mosiński et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2312.16552](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.16552)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: Dimensional representations of speech emotions such as the arousal-valence (AV) representation provide a continuous and fine-grained description and control than their categorical counterparts. They have wide applications in tasks such as dynamic emotion understanding and expressive text-to-speech synthesis. Existing methods that predict the dimensional emotion representation from speech cast it as a supervised regression task. These methods face data scarcity issues, as dimensional annotations are much harder to acquire than categorical labels. In this work, we propose to learn the AV representation from categorical emotion labels of speech. We start by learning a rich and emotion-relevant high-dimensional speech feature representation using self-supervised pre-training and emotion classification fine-tuning. This representation is then mapped to the 2D AV space according to psychological findings through anchored dimensionality reduction. Experiments show that our method achieves a Concordance Correlation Coefficient (CCC) performance comparable to state-of-the-art supervised regression methods on IEMOCAP without leveraging ground-truth AV annotations during training. This validates our proposed approach on AV prediction. Furthermore, visualization of AV predictions on MEAD and EmoDB datasets shows the interpretability of the learned AV representations.

## PromptTTS++: Controlling Speaker Identity in Prompt-Based Text-to-Speech Using Natural Language Descriptions
- **Authors**: Reo Shimizu et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2309.08140](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.08140)
- **Tags**: multilingual, synthesis
- **Abstract**: In this work, we introduce a framework for cross-lingual speech synthesis, which involves an upstream Voice Conversion (VC) model and a downstream Text-To-Speech (TTS) model. The proposed framework consists of 4 stages. In the first two stages, we use a VC model to convert utterances in the target locale to the voice of the target speaker. In the third stage, the converted data is combined with the linguistic features and durations from recordings in the target language, which are then used to train a single-speaker acoustic model. Finally, the last stage entails the training of a locale-independent vocoder. Our evaluations show that the proposed paradigm outperforms state-of-the-art approaches which are based on training a large multilingual TTS model. In addition, our experiments demonstrate the robustness of our approach with different model architectures, languages, speakers and amounts of data. Moreover, our solution is especially beneficial in low-resource settings.

