# TTS Papers - 2023-08-14

Total: 2

## SpeechX: Neural Codec Language Model as a Versatile Speech Transformer
- **Authors**: Xiaofei Wang et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2308.06873](https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.06873)
- **Tags**: multilingual, codec, llm-based
- **Abstract**: Although audio generation shares commonalities across different types of audio, such as speech, music, and sound effects, designing models for each type requires careful consideration of specific objectives and biases that can significantly differ from those of other types. To bring us closer to a unified perspective of audio generation, this paper proposes a framework that utilizes the same learning method for speech, music, and sound effect generation. Our framework introduces a general representation of audio, called "language of audio" (LOA). Any audio can be translated into LOA based on AudioMAE, a self-supervised pre-trained representation learning model. In the generation process, we translate any modalities into LOA by using a GPT-2 model, and we perform self-supervised audio generation learning with a latent diffusion model conditioned on LOA. The proposed framework naturally brings advantages such as in-context learning abilities and reusable self-supervised pretrained AudioMAE and latent diffusion models. Experiments on the major benchmarks of text-to-audio, text-to-music, and text-to-speech demonstrate state-of-the-art or competitive performance against previous approaches. Our code, pretrained model, and demo are available at https://audioldm.github.io/audioldm2.

## Miipher: A Robust Speech Restoration Model Integrating Self-Supervised Speech and Text Representations
- **Authors**: Yuma Koizumi et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2303.01664](https://arxiv.org/abs/2303.01664)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: Audio-driven talking face has attracted broad interest from academia and industry recently. However, data acquisition and labeling in audio-driven talking face are labor-intensive and costly. The lack of data resource results in poor synthesis effect. To alleviate this issue, we propose to use TTS (Text-To-Speech) for data augmentation to improve few-shot ability of the talking face system. The misalignment problem brought by the TTS audio is solved with the introduction of soft-DTW, which is first adopted in the talking face task. Moreover, features extracted by HuBERT are explored to utilize underlying information of audio, and found to be superior over other features. The proposed method achieves 17%, 14%, 38% dominance on MSE score, DTW score and user study preference repectively over the baseline model, which shows the effectiveness of improving few-shot learning for talking face system with TTS augmentation.

