# TTS Papers - 2023-09-20

Total: 2

## Speak While You Think: Streaming Speech Synthesis During Text Generation
- **Authors**: Avihu Dekel et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2309.11210](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.11210)
- **Tags**: streaming, synthesis
- **Abstract**: We present ArTST, a pre-trained Arabic text and speech transformer for supporting open-source speech technologies for the Arabic language. The model architecture follows the unified-modal framework, SpeechT5, that was recently released for English, and is focused on Modern Standard Arabic (MSA), with plans to extend the model for dialectal and code-switched Arabic in future editions. We pre-trained the model from scratch on MSA speech and text data, and fine-tuned it for the following tasks: Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR), Text-To-Speech synthesis (TTS), and spoken dialect identification. In our experiments comparing ArTST with SpeechT5, as well as with previously reported results in these tasks, ArTST performs on a par with or exceeding the current state-of-the-art in all three tasks. Moreover, we find that our pre-training is conducive for generalization, which is particularly evident in the low-resource TTS task. The pre-trained model as well as the fine-tuned ASR and TTS models are released for research use.

## Towards Joint Modeling of Dialogue Response and Speech Synthesis based on Large Language Model
- **Authors**: Xinyu Zhou et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2309.11000](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.11000)
- **Tags**: multilingual, llm-based, synthesis
- **Abstract**: Large Language Models (LLMs) demonstrate impressive capabilities, yet interaction with these models is mostly facilitated through text. Using Text-To-Speech to synthesize LLM outputs typically results in notable latency, which is impractical for fluent voice conversations. We propose LLM2Speech, an architecture to synthesize speech while text is being generated by an LLM which yields significant latency reduction. LLM2Speech mimics the predictions of a non-streaming teacher model while limiting the exposure to future context in order to enable streaming. It exploits the hidden embeddings of the LLM, a by-product of the text generation that contains informative semantic context. Experimental results show that LLM2Speech maintains the teacher's quality while reducing the latency to enable natural conversations.

