# TTS Papers - 2023-02-28

Total: 2

## ClArTTS: An Open-Source Classical Arabic Text-to-Speech Corpus
- **Authors**: Ajinkya Kulkarni et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2303.00069](https://arxiv.org/abs/2303.00069)
- **Tags**: synthesis
- **Abstract**: In recent years, emotional text-to-speech has shown considerable progress. However, it requires a large amount of labeled data, which is not easily accessible. Even if it is possible to acquire an emotional speech dataset, there is still a limitation in controlling emotion intensity. In this work, we propose a novel method for cross-speaker emotion transfer and manipulation using vector arithmetic in latent style space. By leveraging only a few labeled samples, we generate emotional speech from reading-style speech without losing the speaker identity. Furthermore, emotion strength is readily controllable using a scalar value, providing an intuitive way for users to manipulate speech. Experimental results show the proposed method affords superior performance in terms of expressiveness, naturalness, and controllability, preserving speaker identity.

## Automatic Heteronym Resolution Pipeline Using RAD-TTS Aligners
- **Authors**: Jocelyn Huang et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2302.14523](https://arxiv.org/abs/2302.14523)
- **Tags**: synthesis
- **Abstract**: The front-end is a critical component of English text-to-speech (TTS) systems, responsible for extracting linguistic features that are essential for a text-to-speech model to synthesize speech, such as prosodies and phonemes. The English TTS front-end typically consists of a text normalization (TN) module, a prosody word prosody phrase (PWPP) module, and a grapheme-to-phoneme (G2P) module. However, current research on the English TTS front-end focuses solely on individual modules, neglecting the interdependence between them and resulting in sub-optimal performance for each module. Therefore, this paper proposes a unified front-end framework that captures the dependencies among the English TTS front-end modules. Extensive experiments have demonstrated that the proposed method achieves state-of-the-art (SOTA) performance in all modules.

