# TTS Papers - 2023-12-22

Total: 3

## Creating New Voices using Normalizing Flows
- **Authors**: Piotr Bilinski et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2312.14569](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.14569)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: We propose a new model architecture specifically suited for text-to-speech (TTS) models. We combine WavLM, a pre-trained self-supervised learning (SSL) speech model, and the BEST-RQ vector quantization framework. We assess the extent to which the more task-agnostic WavLM, coupled with the superior suitability of the simplistic BEST-RQ framework for a wider array of downstream tasks, yields favorable outcomes. Experiments on the LibriSpeech dataset with SUPERB benchmarking assert that the proposed model significantly underperforms. We speculate the underlying reason for this performance is related to the difference between featurizing raw audio waveforms and spectrograms with a quantizer. We discuss the limitations of this approach to better guide future advancements in TTS.

## ZMM-TTS: Zero-shot Multilingual and Multispeaker Speech Synthesis Conditioned on Self-supervised Discrete Speech Representations
- **Authors**: Cheng Gong et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2312.14398](https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.14398)
- **Tags**: zero-shot, multilingual, synthesis
- **Abstract**: Large Language Models (LLMs) are one of the most promising technologies for the next era of speech generation systems, due to their scalability and in-context learning capabilities. Nevertheless, they suffer from multiple stability issues at inference time, such as hallucinations, content skipping or speech repetitions. In this work, we introduce a new self-supervised Voice Conversion (VC) architecture which can be used to learn to encode transitory features, such as content, separately from stationary ones, such as speaker ID or recording conditions, creating speaker-disentangled representations. Using speaker-disentangled codes to train LLMs for text-to-speech (TTS) allows the LLM to generate the content and the style of the speech only from the text, similarly to humans, while the speaker identity is provided by the decoder of the VC model. Results show that LLMs trained over speaker-disentangled self-supervised representations provide an improvement of 4.7pp in speaker similarity over SOTA entangled representations, and a word error rate (WER) 5.4pp lower. Furthermore, they achieve higher naturalness than human recordings of the LibriTTS test-other dataset. Finally, we show that using explicit reference embedding negatively impacts intelligibility (stability), with WER increasing by 14pp compared to the model that only uses text to infer the style.

## Crowdsourced and Automatic Speech Prominence Estimation
- **Authors**: Max Morrison et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2310.08464](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.08464)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: In this paper, we present a Diffusion GAN based approach (Prosodic Diff-TTS) to generate the corresponding high-fidelity speech based on the style description and content text as an input to generate speech samples within only 4 denoising steps. It leverages the novel conditional prosodic layer normalization to incorporate the style embeddings into the multi head attention based phoneme encoder and mel spectrogram decoder based generator architecture to generate the speech. The style embedding is generated by fine tuning the pretrained BERT model on auxiliary tasks such as pitch, speaking speed, emotion,gender classifications. We demonstrate the efficacy of our proposed architecture on multi-speaker LibriTTS and PromptSpeech datasets, using multiple quantitative metrics that measure generated accuracy and MOS.

