# TTS Papers - 2023-08-02

Total: 2

## SALTTS: Leveraging Self-Supervised Speech Representations for improved Text-to-Speech Synthesis
- **Authors**: Ramanan Sivaguru et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2308.01018](https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.01018)
- **Tags**: synthesis
- **Abstract**: Phonetic information and linguistic knowledge are an essential component of a Text-to-speech (TTS) front-end. Given a language, a lexicon can be collected offline and Grapheme-to-Phoneme (G2P) relationships are usually modeled in order to predict the pronunciation for out-of-vocabulary (OOV) words. Additionally, post-lexical phonology, often defined in the form of rule-based systems, is used to correct pronunciation within or between words. In this work we showcase a multilingual unified front-end system that addresses any pronunciation related task, typically handled by separate modules. We evaluate the proposed model on G2P conversion and other language-specific challenges, such as homograph and polyphones disambiguation, post-lexical rules and implicit diacritization. We find that the multilingual model is competitive across languages and tasks, however, some trade-offs exists when compared to equivalent monolingual solutions.

## Ada-TTA: Towards Adaptive High-Quality Text-to-Talking Avatar Synthesis
- **Authors**: Zhenhui Ye et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2306.03504](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.03504)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: Various applications of voice synthesis have been developed independently despite the fact that they generate "voice" as output in common. In addition, the majority of voice synthesis models currently rely on annotated audio data, but it is crucial to scale them to self-supervised datasets in order to effectively capture the wide range of acoustic variations present in human voice, including speaker identity, emotion, and prosody. In this work, we propose Make-A-Voice, a unified framework for synthesizing and manipulating voice signals from discrete representations. Make-A-Voice leverages a "coarse-to-fine" approach to model the human voice, which involves three stages: 1) semantic stage: model high-level transformation between linguistic content and self-supervised semantic tokens, 2) acoustic stage: introduce varying control signals as acoustic conditions for semantic-to-acoustic modeling, and 3) generation stage: synthesize high-fidelity waveforms from acoustic tokens. Make-A-Voice offers notable benefits as a unified voice synthesis framework: 1) Data scalability: the major backbone (i.e., acoustic and generation stage) does not require any annotations, and thus the training data could be scaled up. 2) Controllability and conditioning flexibility: we investigate different conditioning mechanisms and effectively handle three voice synthesis applications, including text-to-speech (TTS), voice conversion (VC), and singing voice synthesis (SVS) by re-synthesizing the discrete voice representations with prompt guidance. Experimental results demonstrate that Make-A-Voice exhibits superior audio quality and style similarity compared with competitive baseline models. Audio samples are available at https://Make-A-Voice.github.io

