# TTS Papers - 2023-05-29

Total: 4

## ADAPTERMIX: Exploring the Efficacy of Mixture of Adapters for Low-Resource TTS Adaptation
- **Authors**: Ambuj Mehrish et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2305.18028](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.18028)
- **Tags**: synthesis
- **Abstract**: Recently, diffusion models have achieved remarkable success in generating tasks, including image and audio generation. However, like other generative models, diffusion models are prone to privacy issues. In this paper, we propose an efficient query-based membership inference attack (MIA), namely Proximal Initialization Attack (PIA), which utilizes groundtruth trajectory obtained by $ε$ initialized in $t=0$ and predicted point to infer memberships. Experimental results indicate that the proposed method can achieve competitive performance with only two queries on both discrete-time and continuous-time diffusion models. Moreover, previous works on the privacy of diffusion models have focused on vision tasks without considering audio tasks. Therefore, we also explore the robustness of diffusion models to MIA in the text-to-speech (TTS) task, which is an audio generation task. To the best of our knowledge, this work is the first to study the robustness of diffusion models to MIA in the TTS task. Experimental results indicate that models with mel-spectrogram (image-like) output are vulnerable to MIA, while models with audio output are relatively robust to MIA. {Code is available at \url{https://github.com/kong13661/PIA}}.

## Automatic Evaluation of Turn-taking Cues in Conversational Speech Synthesis
- **Authors**: Erik Ekstedt et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2305.17971](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.17971)
- **Tags**: synthesis
- **Abstract**: Effective speech emotional representations play a key role in Speech Emotion Recognition (SER) and Emotional Text-To-Speech (TTS) tasks. However, emotional speech samples are more difficult and expensive to acquire compared with Neutral style speech, which causes one issue that most related works unfortunately neglect: imbalanced datasets. Models might overfit to the majority Neutral class and fail to produce robust and effective emotional representations. In this paper, we propose an Emotion Extractor to address this issue. We use augmentation approaches to train the model and enable it to extract effective and generalizable emotional representations from imbalanced datasets. Our empirical results show that (1) for the SER task, the proposed Emotion Extractor surpasses the state-of-the-art baseline on three imbalanced datasets; (2) the produced representations from our Emotion Extractor benefit the TTS model, and enable it to synthesize more expressive speech.

## OverFlow: Putting flows on top of neural transducers for better TTS
- **Authors**: Shivam Mehta et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2211.06892](https://arxiv.org/abs/2211.06892)
- **Tags**: synthesis

## Semi-supervised learning for continuous emotional intensity controllable speech synthesis with disentangled representations
- **Authors**: Yoori Oh et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2211.06160](https://arxiv.org/abs/2211.06160)
- **Tags**: expressive, synthesis
- **Abstract**: This paper presents a method for end-to-end cross-lingual text-to-speech (TTS) which aims to preserve the target language's pronunciation regardless of the original speaker's language. The model used is based on a non-attentive Tacotron architecture, where the decoder has been replaced with a normalizing flow network conditioned on the speaker identity, allowing both TTS and voice conversion (VC) to be performed by the same model due to the inherent linguistic content and speaker identity disentanglement. When used in a cross-lingual setting, acoustic features are initially produced with a native speaker of the target language and then voice conversion is applied by the same model in order to convert these features to the target speaker's voice. We verify through objective and subjective evaluations that our method can have benefits compared to baseline cross-lingual synthesis. By including speakers averaging 7.5 minutes of speech, we also present positive results on low-resource scenarios.

