# TTS Papers - 2023-01-10

Total: 2

## UnifySpeech: A Unified Framework for Zero-shot Text-to-Speech and Voice Conversion
- **Authors**: Haogeng Liu et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2301.03801](https://arxiv.org/abs/2301.03801)
- **Tags**: zero-shot, synthesis
- **Abstract**: This work focuses on modelling a speaker's accent that does not have a dedicated text-to-speech (TTS) frontend, including a grapheme-to-phoneme (G2P) module. Prior work on modelling accents assumes a phonetic transcription is available for the target accent, which might not be the case for low-resource, regional accents. In our work, we propose an approach whereby we first augment the target accent data to sound like the donor voice via voice conversion, then train a multi-speaker multi-accent TTS model on the combination of recordings and synthetic data, to generate the donor's voice speaking in the target accent. Throughout the procedure, we use a TTS frontend developed for the same language but a different accent. We show qualitative and quantitative analysis where the proposed strategy achieves state-of-the-art results compared to other generative models. Our work demonstrates that low resource accents can be modelled with relatively little data and without developing an accent-specific TTS frontend. Audio samples of our model converting to multiple accents are available on our web page.

## Generative Emotional AI for Speech Emotion Recognition: The Case for Synthetic Emotional Speech Augmentation
- **Authors**: Abdullah Shahid et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2301.03751](https://arxiv.org/abs/2301.03751)
- **Tags**: expressive
- **Abstract**: Entrainment is the phenomenon by which an interlocutor adapts their speaking style to align with their partner in conversations. It has been found in different dimensions as acoustic, prosodic, lexical or syntactic. In this work, we explore and utilize the entrainment phenomenon to improve spoken dialogue systems for voice assistants. We first examine the existence of the entrainment phenomenon in human-to-human dialogues in respect to acoustic feature and then extend the analysis to emotion features. The analysis results show strong evidence of entrainment in terms of both acoustic and emotion features. Based on this findings, we implement two entrainment policies and assess if the integration of entrainment principle into a Text-to-Speech (TTS) system improves the synthesis performance and the user experience. It is found that the integration of the entrainment principle into a TTS system brings performance improvement when considering acoustic features, while no obvious improvement is observed when considering emotion features.

