# TTS Papers - 2023-10-09

Total: 2

## JVNV: A Corpus of Japanese Emotional Speech with Verbal Content and Nonverbal Expressions
- **Authors**: Detai Xin et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2310.06072](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.06072)
- **Tags**: expressive
- **Abstract**: Recent advances in text-to-speech have made it possible to generate natural-sounding audio from text. However, audiobook narrations involve dramatic vocalizations and intonations by the reader, with greater reliance on emotions, dialogues, and descriptions in the narrative. Using our dataset of 93 aligned book-audiobook pairs, we present improved models for prosody prediction properties (pitch, volume, and rate of speech) from narrative text using language modeling. Our predicted prosody attributes correlate much better with human audiobook readings than results from a state-of-the-art commercial TTS system: our predicted pitch shows a higher correlation with human reading for 22 out of the 24 books, while our predicted volume attribute proves more similar to human reading for 23 out of the 24 books. Finally, we present a human evaluation study to quantify the extent that people prefer prosody-enhanced audiobook readings over commercial text-to-speech systems.

## An Efficient Membership Inference Attack for the Diffusion Model by Proximal Initialization
- **Authors**: Fei Kong et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2305.18355](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.18355)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: This paper describes the NPU-MSXF system for the IWSLT 2023 speech-to-speech translation (S2ST) task which aims to translate from English speech of multi-source to Chinese speech. The system is built in a cascaded manner consisting of automatic speech recognition (ASR), machine translation (MT), and text-to-speech (TTS). We make tremendous efforts to handle the challenging multi-source input. Specifically, to improve the robustness to multi-source speech input, we adopt various data augmentation strategies and a ROVER-based score fusion on multiple ASR model outputs. To better handle the noisy ASR transcripts, we introduce a three-stage fine-tuning strategy to improve translation accuracy. Finally, we build a TTS model with high naturalness and sound quality, which leverages a two-stage framework, using network bottleneck features as a robust intermediate representation for speaker timbre and linguistic content disentanglement. Based on the two-stage framework, pre-trained speaker embedding is leveraged as a condition to transfer the speaker timbre in the source English speech to the translated Chinese speech. Experimental results show that our system has high translation accuracy, speech naturalness, sound quality, and speaker similarity. Moreover, it shows good robustness to multi-source data.

