# TTS Papers - 2023-10-12

Total: 2

## Vec-Tok Speech: speech vectorization and tokenization for neural speech generation
- **Authors**: Xinfa Zhu et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2310.07246](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.07246)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: This paper integrates graph-to-sequence into an end-to-end text-to-speech framework for syntax-aware modelling with syntactic information of input text. Specifically, the input text is parsed by a dependency parsing module to form a syntactic graph. The syntactic graph is then encoded by a graph encoder to extract the syntactic hidden information, which is concatenated with phoneme embedding and input to the alignment and flow-based decoding modules to generate the raw audio waveform. The model is experimented on two languages, English and Mandarin, using single-speaker, few samples of target speakers, and multi-speaker datasets, respectively. Experimental results show better prosodic consistency performance between input text and generated audio, and also get higher scores in the subjective prosodic evaluation, and show the ability of voice conversion. Besides, the efficiency of the model is largely boosted through the design of the AI chip operator with 5x acceleration.

## PromptTTS 2: Describing and Generating Voices with Text Prompt
- **Authors**: Yichong Leng et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2309.02285](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.02285)
- **Tags**: synthesis
- **Abstract**: Recent advancements in generative speech models based on audio-text prompts have enabled remarkable innovations like high-quality zero-shot text-to-speech. However, existing models still face limitations in handling diverse audio-text speech generation tasks involving transforming input speech and processing audio captured in adverse acoustic conditions. This paper introduces SpeechX, a versatile speech generation model capable of zero-shot TTS and various speech transformation tasks, dealing with both clean and noisy signals. SpeechX combines neural codec language modeling with multi-task learning using task-dependent prompting, enabling unified and extensible modeling and providing a consistent way for leveraging textual input in speech enhancement and transformation tasks. Experimental results show SpeechX's efficacy in various tasks, including zero-shot TTS, noise suppression, target speaker extraction, speech removal, and speech editing with or without background noise, achieving comparable or superior performance to specialized models across tasks. See https://aka.ms/speechx for demo samples.

