# TTS Papers - 2023-10-07

Total: 4

## The VoiceMOS Challenge 2023: Zero-shot Subjective Speech Quality Prediction for Multiple Domains
- **Authors**: Erica Cooper et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2310.02640](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.02640)
- **Tags**: zero-shot
- **Abstract**: As text-to-speech technologies achieve remarkable naturalness in read-aloud tasks, there is growing interest in multimodal synthesis of verbal and non-verbal communicative behaviour, such as spontaneous speech and associated body gestures. This paper presents a novel, unified architecture for jointly synthesising speech acoustics and skeleton-based 3D gesture motion from text, trained using optimal-transport conditional flow matching (OT-CFM). The proposed architecture is simpler than the previous state of the art, has a smaller memory footprint, and can capture the joint distribution of speech and gestures, generating both modalities together in one single process. The new training regime, meanwhile, enables better synthesis quality in much fewer steps (network evaluations) than before. Uni- and multimodal subjective tests demonstrate improved speech naturalness, gesture human-likeness, and cross-modal appropriateness compared to existing benchmarks. Please see https://shivammehta25.github.io/Match-TTSG/ for video examples and code.

## HiGNN-TTS: Hierarchical Prosody Modeling with Graph Neural Networks for Expressive Long-form TTS
- **Authors**: Dake Guo et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2309.13907](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.13907)
- **Tags**: expressive, long-context, synthesis
- **Abstract**: High-quality and intelligible speech is essential to text-to-speech (TTS) model training, however, obtaining high-quality data for low-resource languages is challenging and expensive. Applying speech enhancement on Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR) corpus mitigates the issue by augmenting the training data, while how the nonlinear speech distortion brought by speech enhancement models affects TTS training still needs to be investigated. In this paper, we train a TF-GridNet speech enhancement model and apply it to low-resource datasets that were collected for the ASR task, then train a discrete unit based TTS model on the enhanced speech. We use Arabic datasets as an example and show that the proposed pipeline significantly improves the low-resource TTS system compared with other baseline methods in terms of ASR WER metric. We also run empirical analysis on the correlation between speech enhancement and TTS performances.

## FunCodec: A Fundamental, Reproducible and Integrable Open-source Toolkit for Neural Speech Codec
- **Authors**: Zhihao Du et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2309.07405](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.07405)
- **Tags**: codec
- **Abstract**: This paper proposes a novel semi-supervised TTS framework, QS-TTS, to improve TTS quality with lower supervised data requirements via Vector-Quantized Self-Supervised Speech Representation Learning (VQ-S3RL) utilizing more unlabeled speech audio. This framework comprises two VQ-S3R learners: first, the principal learner aims to provide a generative Multi-Stage Multi-Codebook (MSMC) VQ-S3R via the MSMC-VQ-GAN combined with the contrastive S3RL, while decoding it back to the high-quality audio; then, the associate learner further abstracts the MSMC representation into a highly-compact VQ representation through a VQ-VAE. These two generative VQ-S3R learners provide profitable speech representations and pre-trained models for TTS, significantly improving synthesis quality with the lower requirement for supervised data. QS-TTS is evaluated comprehensively under various scenarios via subjective and objective tests in experiments. The results powerfully demonstrate the superior performance of QS-TTS, winning the highest MOS over supervised or semi-supervised baseline TTS approaches, especially in low-resource scenarios. Moreover, comparing various speech representations and transfer learning methods in TTS further validates the notable improvement of the proposed VQ-S3RL to TTS, showing the best audio quality and intelligibility metrics. The trend of slower decay in the synthesis quality of QS-TTS with decreasing supervised data further highlights its lower requirements for supervised data, indicating its great potential in low-resource scenarios.

## ContextSpeech: Expressive and Efficient Text-to-Speech for Paragraph Reading
- **Authors**: Yujia Xiao et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2307.00782](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.00782)
- **Tags**: expressive, synthesis
- **Abstract**: Recent advancements in Large Language Models (LLMs) have significantly influenced the landscape of language and speech research. Despite this progress, these models lack specific benchmarking against state-of-the-art (SOTA) models tailored to particular languages and tasks. LAraBench addresses this gap for Arabic Natural Language Processing (NLP) and Speech Processing tasks, including sequence tagging and content classification across different domains. We utilized models such as GPT-3.5-turbo, GPT-4, BLOOMZ, Jais-13b-chat, Whisper, and USM, employing zero and few-shot learning techniques to tackle 33 distinct tasks across 61 publicly available datasets. This involved 98 experimental setups, encompassing ~296K data points, ~46 hours of speech, and 30 sentences for Text-to-Speech (TTS). This effort resulted in 330+ sets of experiments. Our analysis focused on measuring the performance gap between SOTA models and LLMs. The overarching trend observed was that SOTA models generally outperformed LLMs in zero-shot learning, with a few exceptions. Notably, larger computational models with few-shot learning techniques managed to reduce these performance gaps. Our findings provide valuable insights into the applicability of LLMs for Arabic NLP and speech processing tasks.

