# TTS Papers - 2023-05-31

Total: 3

## Text-to-Speech Pipeline for Swiss German -- A comparison
- **Authors**: Tobias Bollinger et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2305.19750](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.19750)
- **Tags**: synthesis
- **Abstract**: The goal of DCASE 2023 Challenge Task 7 is to generate various sound clips for Foley sound synthesis (FSS) by "category-to-sound" approach. "Category" is expressed by a single index while corresponding "sound" covers diverse and different sound examples. To generate diverse sounds for a given category, we adopt VITS, a text-to-speech (TTS) model with variational inference. In addition, we apply various techniques from speech synthesis including PhaseAug and Avocodo. Different from TTS models which generate short pronunciation from phonemes and speaker identity, the category-to-sound problem requires generating diverse sounds just from a category index. To compensate for the difference while maintaining consistency within each audio clip, we heavily modified the prior encoder to enhance consistency with posterior latent variables. This introduced additional Gaussian on the prior encoder which promotes variance within the category. With these modifications, we propose VIFS, variational inference for end-to-end Foley sound synthesis, which generates diverse high-quality sounds.

## XPhoneBERT: A Pre-trained Multilingual Model for Phoneme Representations for Text-to-Speech
- **Authors**: Linh The Nguyen et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2305.19709](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.19709)
- **Tags**: multilingual, synthesis
- **Abstract**: Audio Deepfake Detection (ADD) aims to detect the fake audio generated by text-to-speech (TTS), voice conversion (VC) and replay, etc., which is an emerging topic. Traditionally we take the mono signal as input and focus on robust feature extraction and effective classifier design. However, the dual-channel stereo information in the audio signal also includes important cues for deepfake, which has not been studied in the prior work. In this paper, we propose a novel ADD model, termed as M2S-ADD, that attempts to discover audio authenticity cues during the mono-to-stereo conversion process. We first projects the mono to a stereo signal using a pretrained stereo synthesizer, then employs a dual-branch neural architecture to process the left and right channel signals, respectively. In this way, we effectively reveal the artifacts in the fake audio, thus improve the ADD performance. The experiments on the ASVspoof2019 database show that M2S-ADD outperforms all baselines that input mono. We release the source code at \url{https://github.com/AI-S2-Lab/M2S-ADD}.

## NaturalSpeech 2: Latent Diffusion Models are Natural and Zero-Shot Speech and Singing Synthesizers
- **Authors**: Kai Shen et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2304.09116](https://arxiv.org/abs/2304.09116)
- **Tags**: zero-shot
- **Abstract**: The field of speech processing has undergone a transformative shift with the advent of deep learning. The use of multiple processing layers has enabled the creation of models capable of extracting intricate features from speech data. This development has paved the way for unparalleled advancements in speech recognition, text-to-speech synthesis, automatic speech recognition, and emotion recognition, propelling the performance of these tasks to unprecedented heights. The power of deep learning techniques has opened up new avenues for research and innovation in the field of speech processing, with far-reaching implications for a range of industries and applications. This review paper provides a comprehensive overview of the key deep learning models and their applications in speech-processing tasks. We begin by tracing the evolution of speech processing research, from early approaches, such as MFCC and HMM, to more recent advances in deep learning architectures, such as CNNs, RNNs, transformers, conformers, and diffusion models. We categorize the approaches and compare their strengths and weaknesses for solving speech-processing tasks. Furthermore, we extensively cover various speech-processing tasks, datasets, and benchmarks used in the literature and describe how different deep-learning networks have been utilized to tackle these tasks. Additionally, we discuss the challenges and future directions of deep learning in speech processing, including the need for more parameter-efficient, interpretable models and the potential of deep learning for multimodal speech processing. By examining the field's evolution, comparing and contrasting different approaches, and highlighting future directions and challenges, we hope to inspire further research in this exciting and rapidly advancing field.

