# TTS Papers - 2023-03-02

Total: 3

## Evaluating Parameter-Efficient Transfer Learning Approaches on SURE Benchmark for Speech Understanding
- **Authors**: Yingting Li et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2303.03267](https://arxiv.org/abs/2303.03267)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: It has been known that direct speech-to-speech translation (S2ST) models usually suffer from the data scarcity issue because of the limited existing parallel materials for both source and target speech. Therefore to train a direct S2ST system, previous works usually utilize text-to-speech (TTS) systems to generate samples in the target language by augmenting the data from speech-to-text translation (S2TT). However, there is a limited investigation into how the synthesized target speech would affect the S2ST models. In this work, we analyze the effect of changing synthesized target speech for direct S2ST models. We find that simply combining the target speech from different TTS systems can potentially improve the S2ST performances. Following that, we also propose a multi-task framework that jointly optimizes the S2ST system with multiple targets from different TTS systems. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our proposed framework achieves consistent improvements (2.8 BLEU) over the baselines on the Fisher Spanish-English dataset.

## LiteG2P: A fast, light and high accuracy model for grapheme-to-phoneme conversion
- **Authors**: Chunfeng Wang et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2303.01086](https://arxiv.org/abs/2303.01086)
- **Tags**: streaming
- **Abstract**: End-to-end speech summarization (E2E SSum) is a technique to directly generate summary sentences from speech. Compared with the cascade approach, which combines automatic speech recognition (ASR) and text summarization models, the E2E approach is more promising because it mitigates ASR errors, incorporates nonverbal information, and simplifies the overall system. However, since collecting a large amount of paired data (i.e., speech and summary) is difficult, the training data is usually insufficient to train a robust E2E SSum system. In this paper, we present two novel methods that leverage a large amount of external text summarization data for E2E SSum training. The first technique is to utilize a text-to-speech (TTS) system to generate synthesized speech, which is used for E2E SSum training with the text summary. The second is a TTS-free method that directly inputs phoneme sequence instead of synthesized speech to the E2E SSum model. Experiments show that our proposed TTS- and phoneme-based methods improve several metrics on the How2 dataset. In particular, our best system outperforms a previous state-of-the-art one by a large margin (i.e., METEOR score improvements of more than 6 points). To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work to use external language resources for E2E SSum. Moreover, we report a detailed analysis of the How2 dataset to confirm the validity of our proposed E2E SSum system.

## Leveraging Large Text Corpora for End-to-End Speech Summarization
- **Authors**: Kohei Matsuura et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2303.00978](https://arxiv.org/abs/2303.00978)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: At present, Text-to-speech (TTS) systems that are trained with high-quality transcribed speech data using end-to-end neural models can generate speech that is intelligible, natural, and closely resembles human speech. These models are trained with relatively large single-speaker professionally recorded audio, typically extracted from audiobooks. Meanwhile, due to the scarcity of freely available speech corpora of this kind, a larger gap exists in Arabic TTS research and development. Most of the existing freely available Arabic speech corpora are not suitable for TTS training as they contain multi-speaker casual speech with variations in recording conditions and quality, whereas the corpus curated for speech synthesis are generally small in size and not suitable for training state-of-the-art end-to-end models. In a move towards filling this gap in resources, we present a speech corpus for Classical Arabic Text-to-Speech (ClArTTS) to support the development of end-to-end TTS systems for Arabic. The speech is extracted from a LibriVox audiobook, which is then processed, segmented, and manually transcribed and annotated. The final ClArTTS corpus contains about 12 hours of speech from a single male speaker sampled at 40100 kHz. In this paper, we describe the process of corpus creation and provide details of corpus statistics and a comparison with existing resources. Furthermore, we develop two TTS systems based on Grad-TTS and Glow-TTS and illustrate the performance of the resulting systems via subjective and objective evaluations. The corpus will be made publicly available at www.clartts.com for research purposes, along with the baseline TTS systems demo.

