# TTS Papers - 2023-04-16

Total: 2

## A Virtual Simulation-Pilot Agent for Training of Air Traffic Controllers
- **Authors**: Juan Zuluaga-Gomez et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2304.07842](https://arxiv.org/abs/2304.07842)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: This paper proposes a source-filter-based generative adversarial neural vocoder named SF-GAN, which achieves high-fidelity waveform generation from input acoustic features by introducing F0-based source excitation signals to a neural filter framework. The SF-GAN vocoder is composed of a source module and a resolution-wise conditional filter module and is trained based on generative adversarial strategies. The source module produces an excitation signal from the F0 information, then the resolution-wise convolutional filter module combines the excitation signal with processed acoustic features at various temporal resolutions and finally reconstructs the raw waveform. The experimental results show that our proposed SF-GAN vocoder outperforms the state-of-the-art HiFi-GAN and Fre-GAN in both analysis-synthesis (AS) and text-to-speech (TTS) tasks, and the synthesized speech quality of SF-GAN is comparable to the ground-truth audio.

## Efficiently Trained Low-Resource Mongolian Text-to-Speech System Based On FullConv-TTS
- **Authors**: Ziqi Liang et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2211.01948](https://arxiv.org/abs/2211.01948)
- **Tags**: synthesis
- **Abstract**: With the recent developments in cross-lingual Text-to-Speech (TTS) systems, L2 (second-language, or foreign) accent problems arise. Moreover, running a subjective evaluation for such cross-lingual TTS systems is troublesome. The vowel space analysis, which is often utilized to explore various aspects of language including L2 accents, is a great alternative analysis tool. In this study, we apply the vowel space analysis method to explore L2 accents of cross-lingual TTS systems. Through the vowel space analysis, we observe the three followings: a) a parallel architecture (Glow-TTS) is less L2-accented than an auto-regressive one (Tacotron); b) L2 accents are more dominant in non-shared vowels in a language pair; and c) L2 accents of cross-lingual TTS systems share some phenomena with those of human L2 learners. Our findings imply that it is necessary for TTS systems to handle each language pair differently, depending on their linguistic characteristics such as non-shared vowels. They also hint that we can further incorporate linguistics knowledge in developing cross-lingual TTS systems.

