# TTS Papers - 2023-09-30

Total: 1

## Diffusion-Based Mel-Spectrogram Enhancement for Personalized Speech Synthesis with Found Data
- **Authors**: Yusheng Tian et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2305.10891](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.10891)
- **Tags**: synthesis
- **Abstract**: This paper presents an accented text-to-speech (TTS) synthesis framework with limited training data. We study two aspects concerning accent rendering: phonetic (phoneme difference) and prosodic (pitch pattern and phoneme duration) variations. The proposed accented TTS framework consists of two models: an accented front-end for grapheme-to-phoneme (G2P) conversion and an accented acoustic model with integrated pitch and duration predictors for phoneme-to-Mel-spectrogram prediction. The accented front-end directly models the phonetic variation, while the accented acoustic model explicitly controls the prosodic variation. Specifically, both models are first pre-trained on a large amount of data, then only the accent-related layers are fine-tuned on a limited amount of data for the target accent. In the experiments, speech data of three English accents, i.e., General American English, Irish English, and British English Received Pronunciation, are used for pre-training. The pre-trained models are then fine-tuned with Scottish and General Australian English accents, respectively. Both objective and subjective evaluation results show that the accented TTS front-end fine-tuned with a small accented phonetic lexicon (5k words) effectively handles the phonetic variation of accents, while the accented TTS acoustic model fine-tuned with a limited amount of accented speech data (approximately 3 minutes) effectively improves the prosodic rendering including pitch and duration. The overall accent modeling contributes to improved speech quality and accent similarity.

