# TTS Papers - 2023-05-26

Total: 2

## DisfluencyFixer: A tool to enhance Language Learning through Speech To Speech Disfluency Correction
- **Authors**: Vineet Bhat et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2305.16957](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.16957)
- **Tags**: multilingual
- **Abstract**: Aiming at reducing the reliance on expensive human annotations, data synthesis for Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR) has remained an active area of research. While prior work mainly focuses on synthetic speech generation for ASR data augmentation, its combination with text generation methods is considerably less explored. In this work, we explore text augmentation for ASR using large-scale pre-trained neural networks, and systematically compare those to traditional text augmentation methods. The generated synthetic texts are then converted to synthetic speech using a text-to-speech (TTS) system and added to the ASR training data. In experiments conducted on three datasets, we find that neural models achieve 9%-15% relative WER improvement and outperform traditional methods. We conclude that text augmentation, particularly through modern neural approaches, is a viable tool for improving the accuracy of ASR systems.

## Laughter Synthesis using Pseudo Phonetic Tokens with a Large-scale In-the-wild Laughter Corpus
- **Authors**: Detai Xin et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2305.12442](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.12442)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: This paper describes an end-to-end (E2E) neural architecture for the audio rendering of small portions of display content on low resource personal computing devices. It is intended to address the problem of accessibility for vision-impaired or vision-distracted users at the hardware level. Neural image-to-text (ITT) and text-to-speech (TTS) approaches are reviewed and a new technique is introduced to efficiently integrate them in a way that is both efficient and back-propagate-able, leading to a non-autoregressive E2E image-to-speech (ITS) neural network that is efficient and trainable. Experimental results are presented showing that, compared with the non-E2E approach, the proposed E2E system is 29% faster and uses 19% fewer parameters with a 2% reduction in phone accuracy. A future direction to address accuracy is presented.

