# TTS Papers - 2023-05-25

Total: 5

## Betray Oneself: A Novel Audio DeepFake Detection Model via Mono-to-Stereo Conversion
- **Authors**: Rui Liu et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2305.16353](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.16353)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: We train a MOS prediction model based on wav2vec 2.0 using the open-access data sets BVCC and SOMOS. Our test with neural TTS data in the low-resource language (LRL) West Frisian shows that pre-training on BVCC before fine-tuning on SOMOS leads to the best accuracy for both fine-tuned and zero-shot prediction. Further fine-tuning experiments show that using more than 30 percent of the total data does not lead to significant improvements. In addition, fine-tuning with data from a single listener shows promising system-level accuracy, supporting the viability of one-participant pilot tests. These findings can all assist the resource-conscious development of TTS for LRLs by progressing towards better zero-shot MOS prediction and informing the design of listening tests, especially in early-stage evaluation.

## Multilingual Text-to-Speech Synthesis for Turkic Languages Using Transliteration
- **Authors**: Rustem Yeshpanov et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2305.15749](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.15749)
- **Tags**: multilingual, synthesis
- **Abstract**: Cross-lingual timbre and style generalizable text-to-speech (TTS) aims to synthesize speech with a specific reference timbre or style that is never trained in the target language. It encounters the following challenges: 1) timbre and pronunciation are correlated since multilingual speech of a specific speaker is usually hard to obtain; 2) style and pronunciation are mixed because the speech style contains language-agnostic and language-specific parts. To address these challenges, we propose GenerTTS, which mainly includes the following works: 1) we elaborately design a HuBERT-based information bottleneck to disentangle timbre and pronunciation/style; 2) we minimize the mutual information between style and language to discard the language-specific information in the style embedding. The experiments indicate that GenerTTS outperforms baseline systems in terms of style similarity and pronunciation accuracy, and enables cross-lingual timbre and style generalization.

## EMNS /Imz/ Corpus: An emotive single-speaker dataset for narrative storytelling in games, television and graphic novels
- **Authors**: Kari Ali Noriy et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2305.13137](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.13137)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: The utilization of discrete speech tokens, divided into semantic tokens and acoustic tokens, has been proven superior to traditional acoustic feature mel-spectrograms in terms of naturalness and robustness for text-to-speech (TTS) synthesis. Recent popular models, such as VALL-E and SPEAR-TTS, allow zero-shot speaker adaptation through auto-regressive (AR) continuation of acoustic tokens extracted from a short speech prompt. However, these AR models are restricted to generate speech only in a left-to-right direction, making them unsuitable for speech editing where both preceding and following contexts are provided. Furthermore, these models rely on acoustic tokens, which have audio quality limitations imposed by the performance of audio codec models. In this study, we propose a unified context-aware TTS framework called UniCATS, which is capable of both speech continuation and editing. UniCATS comprises two components, an acoustic model CTX-txt2vec and a vocoder CTX-vec2wav. CTX-txt2vec employs contextual VQ-diffusion to predict semantic tokens from the input text, enabling it to incorporate the semantic context and maintain seamless concatenation with the surrounding context. Following that, CTX-vec2wav utilizes contextual vocoding to convert these semantic tokens into waveforms, taking into consideration the acoustic context. Our experimental results demonstrate that CTX-vec2wav outperforms HifiGAN and AudioLM in terms of speech resynthesis from semantic tokens. Moreover, we show that UniCATS achieves state-of-the-art performance in both speech continuation and editing.

## Evaluating and reducing the distance between synthetic and real speech distributions
- **Authors**: Christoph Minixhofer et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2211.16049](https://arxiv.org/abs/2211.16049)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: Using a text description as prompt to guide the generation of text or images (e.g., GPT-3 or DALLE-2) has drawn wide attention recently. Beyond text and image generation, in this work, we explore the possibility of utilizing text descriptions to guide speech synthesis. Thus, we develop a text-to-speech (TTS) system (dubbed as PromptTTS) that takes a prompt with both style and content descriptions as input to synthesize the corresponding speech. Specifically, PromptTTS consists of a style encoder and a content encoder to extract the corresponding representations from the prompt, and a speech decoder to synthesize speech according to the extracted style and content representations. Compared with previous works in controllable TTS that require users to have acoustic knowledge to understand style factors such as prosody and pitch, PromptTTS is more user-friendly since text descriptions are a more natural way to express speech style (e.g., ''A lady whispers to her friend slowly''). Given that there is no TTS dataset with prompts, to benchmark the task of PromptTTS, we construct and release a dataset containing prompts with style and content information and the corresponding speech. Experiments show that PromptTTS can generate speech with precise style control and high speech quality. Audio samples and our dataset are publicly available.

## Autovocoder: Fast Waveform Generation from a Learned Speech Representation using Differentiable Digital Signal Processing
- **Authors**: Jacob J Webber et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2211.06989](https://arxiv.org/abs/2211.06989)
- **Tags**: streaming, codec
- **Abstract**: Large-scale pre-trained language models have been shown to be helpful in improving the naturalness of text-to-speech (TTS) models by enabling them to produce more naturalistic prosodic patterns. However, these models are usually word-level or sup-phoneme-level and jointly trained with phonemes, making them inefficient for the downstream TTS task where only phonemes are needed. In this work, we propose a phoneme-level BERT (PL-BERT) with a pretext task of predicting the corresponding graphemes along with the regular masked phoneme predictions. Subjective evaluations show that our phoneme-level BERT encoder has significantly improved the mean opinion scores (MOS) of rated naturalness of synthesized speech compared with the state-of-the-art (SOTA) StyleTTS baseline on out-of-distribution (OOD) texts.

