# TTS Papers - 2023-10-25

Total: 3

## ArTST: Arabic Text and Speech Transformer
- **Authors**: Hawau Olamide Toyin et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2310.16621](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.16621)
- **Tags**: llm-based
- **Abstract**: Generative models have gained more and more attention in recent years for their remarkable success in tasks that required estimating and sampling data distribution to generate high-fidelity synthetic data. In speech, text-to-speech synthesis and neural vocoder are good examples where generative models have shined. While generative models have been applied to different applications in speech, there exists no general-purpose generative model that models speech directly. In this work, we take a step toward this direction by showing a single pre-trained generative model can be adapted to different downstream tasks with strong performance. Specifically, we pre-trained a generative model, named SpeechFlow, on 60k hours of untranscribed speech with Flow Matching and masked conditions. Experiment results show the pre-trained generative model can be fine-tuned with task-specific data to match or surpass existing expert models on speech enhancement, separation, and synthesis. Our work suggested a foundational model for generation tasks in speech can be built with generative pre-training.

## Generative Pre-training for Speech with Flow Matching
- **Authors**: Alexander H. Liu et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2310.16338](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.16338)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: This paper proposes a method for extracting a lightweight subset from a text-to-speech (TTS) corpus ensuring synthetic speech quality. In recent years, methods have been proposed for constructing large-scale TTS corpora by collecting diverse data from massive sources such as audiobooks and YouTube. Although these methods have gained significant attention for enhancing the expressive capabilities of TTS systems, they often prioritize collecting vast amounts of data without considering practical constraints like storage capacity and computation time in training, which limits the available data quantity. Consequently, the need arises to efficiently collect data within these volume constraints. To address this, we propose a method for selecting the core subset~(known as \textit{core-set}) from a TTS corpus on the basis of a \textit{diversity metric}, which measures the degree to which a subset encompasses a wide range. Experimental results demonstrate that our proposed method performs significantly better than the baseline phoneme-balanced data selection across language and corpus size.

## SeamlessM4T: Massively Multilingual & Multimodal Machine Translation
- **Authors**: Seamless Communication et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2308.11596](https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.11596)
- **Tags**: multilingual
- **Abstract**: Speech conveys more information than text, as the same word can be uttered in various voices to convey diverse information. Compared to traditional text-to-speech (TTS) methods relying on speech prompts (reference speech) for voice variability, using text prompts (descriptions) is more user-friendly since speech prompts can be hard to find or may not exist at all. TTS approaches based on the text prompt face two main challenges: 1) the one-to-many problem, where not all details about voice variability can be described in the text prompt, and 2) the limited availability of text prompt datasets, where vendors and large cost of data labeling are required to write text prompts for speech. In this work, we introduce PromptTTS 2 to address these challenges with a variation network to provide variability information of voice not captured by text prompts, and a prompt generation pipeline to utilize the large language models (LLM) to compose high quality text prompts. Specifically, the variation network predicts the representation extracted from the reference speech (which contains full information about voice variability) based on the text prompt representation. For the prompt generation pipeline, it generates text prompts for speech with a speech language understanding model to recognize voice attributes (e.g., gender, speed) from speech and a large language model to formulate text prompts based on the recognition results. Experiments on a large-scale (44K hours) speech dataset demonstrate that compared to the previous works, PromptTTS 2 generates voices more consistent with text prompts and supports the sampling of diverse voice variability, thereby offering users more choices on voice generation. Additionally, the prompt generation pipeline produces high-quality text prompts, eliminating the large labeling cost. The demo page of PromptTTS 2 is available online.

