# TTS Papers - 2023-09-11

Total: 2

## Multi-Modal Automatic Prosody Annotation with Contrastive Pretraining of SSWP
- **Authors**: Jinzuomu Zhong et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2309.05423](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.05423)
- **Tags**: expressive
- **Abstract**: Creating an animated data video enriched with audio narration takes a significant amount of time and effort and requires expertise. Users not only need to design complex animations, but also turn written text scripts into audio narrations and synchronize visual changes with the narrations. This paper presents WonderFlow, an interactive authoring tool, that facilitates narration-centric design of animated data videos. WonderFlow allows authors to easily specify a semantic link between text and the corresponding chart elements. Then it automatically generates audio narration by leveraging text-to-speech techniques and aligns the narration with an animation. WonderFlow provides a visualization structure-aware animation library designed to ease chart animation creation, enabling authors to apply pre-designed animation effects to common visualization components. It also allows authors to preview and iteratively refine their data videos in a unified system, without having to switch between different creation tools. To evaluate WonderFlow's effectiveness and usability, we created an example gallery and conducted a user study and expert interviews. The results demonstrated that WonderFlow is easy to use and simplifies the creation of data videos with narration-animation interplay.

## GRASS: Unified Generation Model for Speech-to-Semantic Tasks
- **Authors**: Aobo Xia et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2309.02780](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.02780)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: Previous multilingual text-to-speech (TTS) approaches have considered leveraging monolingual speaker data to enable cross-lingual speech synthesis. However, such data-efficient approaches have ignored synthesizing emotional aspects of speech due to the challenges of cross-speaker cross-lingual emotion transfer - the heavy entanglement of speaker timbre, emotion, and language factors in the speech signal will make a system produce cross-lingual synthetic speech with an undesired foreign accent and weak emotion expressiveness. This paper proposes the Multilingual Emotional TTS (METTS) model to mitigate these problems, realizing both cross-speaker and cross-lingual emotion transfer. Specifically, METTS takes DelightfulTTS as the backbone model and proposes the following designs. First, to alleviate the foreign accent problem, METTS introduces multi-scale emotion modeling to disentangle speech prosody into coarse-grained and fine-grained scales, producing language-agnostic and language-specific emotion representations, respectively. Second, as a pre-processing step, formant shift-based information perturbation is applied to the reference signal for better disentanglement of speaker timbre in the speech. Third, a vector quantization-based emotion matcher is designed for reference selection, leading to decent naturalness and emotion diversity in cross-lingual synthetic speech. Experiments demonstrate the good design of METTS.

