# TTS Papers - 2023-07-31

Total: 5

## Multilingual context-based pronunciation learning for Text-to-Speech
- **Authors**: Giulia Comini et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2307.16709](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.16709)
- **Tags**: multilingual, synthesis
- **Abstract**: Single-stage text-to-speech models have been actively studied recently, and their results have outperformed two-stage pipeline systems. Although the previous single-stage model has made great progress, there is room for improvement in terms of its intermittent unnaturalness, computational efficiency, and strong dependence on phoneme conversion. In this work, we introduce VITS2, a single-stage text-to-speech model that efficiently synthesizes a more natural speech by improving several aspects of the previous work. We propose improved structures and training mechanisms and present that the proposed methods are effective in improving naturalness, similarity of speech characteristics in a multi-speaker model, and efficiency of training and inference. Furthermore, we demonstrate that the strong dependence on phoneme conversion in previous works can be significantly reduced with our method, which allows a fully end-to-end single-stage approach.

## Comparing normalizing flows and diffusion models for prosody and acoustic modelling in text-to-speech
- **Authors**: Guangyan Zhang et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2307.16679](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.16679)
- **Tags**: expressive, synthesis
- **Abstract**: Expressive text-to-speech systems have undergone significant advancements owing to prosody modeling, but conventional methods can still be improved. Traditional approaches have relied on the autoregressive method to predict the quantized prosody vector; however, it suffers from the issues of long-term dependency and slow inference. This study proposes a novel approach called DiffProsody in which expressive speech is synthesized using a diffusion-based latent prosody generator and prosody conditional adversarial training. Our findings confirm the effectiveness of our prosody generator in generating a prosody vector. Furthermore, our prosody conditional discriminator significantly improves the quality of the generated speech by accurately emulating prosody. We use denoising diffusion generative adversarial networks to improve the prosody generation speed. Consequently, DiffProsody is capable of generating prosody 16 times faster than the conventional diffusion model. The superior performance of our proposed method has been demonstrated via experiments.

## Improving grapheme-to-phoneme conversion by learning pronunciations from speech recordings
- **Authors**: Manuel Sam Ribeiro et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2307.16643](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.16643)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: The spontaneous behavior that often occurs in conversations makes speech more human-like compared to reading-style. However, synthesizing spontaneous-style speech is challenging due to the lack of high-quality spontaneous datasets and the high cost of labeling spontaneous behavior. In this paper, we propose a semi-supervised pre-training method to increase the amount of spontaneous-style speech and spontaneous behavioral labels. In the process of semi-supervised learning, both text and speech information are considered for detecting spontaneous behaviors labels in speech. Moreover, a linguistic-aware encoder is used to model the relationship between each sentence in the conversation. Experimental results indicate that our proposed method achieves superior expressive speech synthesis performance with the ability to model spontaneous behavior in spontaneous-style speech and predict reasonable spontaneous behavior from text.

## DiffProsody: Diffusion-based Latent Prosody Generation for Expressive Speech Synthesis with Prosody Conditional Adversarial Training
- **Authors**: Hyung-Seok Oh et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2307.16549](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.16549)
- **Tags**: expressive, synthesis

## VITS2: Improving Quality and Efficiency of Single-Stage Text-to-Speech with Adversarial Learning and Architecture Design
- **Authors**: Jungil Kong et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2307.16430](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.16430)
- **Tags**: synthesis
- **Abstract**: What does it take to create the Babel Fish, a tool that can help individuals translate speech between any two languages? While recent breakthroughs in text-based models have pushed machine translation coverage beyond 200 languages, unified speech-to-speech translation models have yet to achieve similar strides. More specifically, conventional speech-to-speech translation systems rely on cascaded systems that perform translation progressively, putting high-performing unified systems out of reach. To address these gaps, we introduce SeamlessM4T, a single model that supports speech-to-speech translation, speech-to-text translation, text-to-speech translation, text-to-text translation, and automatic speech recognition for up to 100 languages. To build this, we used 1 million hours of open speech audio data to learn self-supervised speech representations with w2v-BERT 2.0. Subsequently, we created a multimodal corpus of automatically aligned speech translations. Filtered and combined with human-labeled and pseudo-labeled data, we developed the first multilingual system capable of translating from and into English for both speech and text. On FLEURS, SeamlessM4T sets a new standard for translations into multiple target languages, achieving an improvement of 20% BLEU over the previous SOTA in direct speech-to-text translation. Compared to strong cascaded models, SeamlessM4T improves the quality of into-English translation by 1.3 BLEU points in speech-to-text and by 2.6 ASR-BLEU points in speech-to-speech. Tested for robustness, our system performs better against background noises and speaker variations in speech-to-text tasks compared to the current SOTA model. Critically, we evaluated SeamlessM4T on gender bias and added toxicity to assess translation safety. Finally, all contributions in this work are open-sourced and accessible at https://github.com/facebookresearch/seamless_communication

