# TTS Papers - 2023-09-01

Total: 2

## The FruitShell French synthesis system at the Blizzard 2023 Challenge
- **Authors**: Xin Qi et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2309.00223](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.00223)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: State-of-the-art text-to-speech (TTS) systems have utilized pretrained language models (PLMs) to enhance prosody and create more natural-sounding speech. However, while PLMs have been extensively researched for natural language understanding (NLU), their impact on TTS has been overlooked. In this study, we aim to address this gap by conducting a comparative analysis of different PLMs for two TTS tasks: prosody prediction and pause prediction. Firstly, we trained a prosody prediction model using 15 different PLMs. Our findings revealed a logarithmic relationship between model size and quality, as well as significant performance differences between neutral and expressive prosody. Secondly, we employed PLMs for pause prediction and found that the task was less sensitive to small models. We also identified a strong correlation between our empirical results and the GLUE scores obtained for these language models. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study of its kind to investigate the impact of different PLMs on TTS.

## The DeepZen Speech Synthesis System for Blizzard Challenge 2023
- **Authors**: Christophe Veaux et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2308.15945](https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.15945)
- **Tags**: synthesis
- **Abstract**: While the performance of cross-lingual TTS based on monolingual corpora has been significantly improved recently, generating cross-lingual speech still suffers from the foreign accent problem, leading to limited naturalness. Besides, current cross-lingual methods ignore modeling emotion, which is indispensable paralinguistic information in speech delivery. In this paper, we propose DiCLET-TTS, a Diffusion model based Cross-Lingual Emotion Transfer method that can transfer emotion from a source speaker to the intra- and cross-lingual target speakers. Specifically, to relieve the foreign accent problem while improving the emotion expressiveness, the terminal distribution of the forward diffusion process is parameterized into a speaker-irrelevant but emotion-related linguistic prior by a prior text encoder with the emotion embedding as a condition. To address the weaker emotional expressiveness problem caused by speaker disentanglement in emotion embedding, a novel orthogonal projection based emotion disentangling module (OP-EDM) is proposed to learn the speaker-irrelevant but emotion-discriminative embedding. Moreover, a condition-enhanced DPM decoder is introduced to strengthen the modeling ability of the speaker and the emotion in the reverse diffusion process to further improve emotion expressiveness in speech delivery. Cross-lingual emotion transfer experiments show the superiority of DiCLET-TTS over various competitive models and the good design of OP-EDM in learning speaker-irrelevant but emotion-discriminative embedding.

