# TTS Papers - 2023-02-27

Total: 2

## Imaginary Voice: Face-styled Diffusion Model for Text-to-Speech
- **Authors**: Jiyoung Lee et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2302.13700](https://arxiv.org/abs/2302.13700)
- **Tags**: expressive, synthesis
- **Abstract**: With the development of automatic speech recognition (ASR) and text-to-speech (TTS) technology, high-quality voice conversion (VC) can be achieved by extracting source content information and target speaker information to reconstruct waveforms. However, current methods still require improvement in terms of inference speed. In this study, we propose a lightweight VITS-based VC model that uses the HuBERT-Soft model to extract content information features without speaker information. Through subjective and objective experiments on synthesized speech, the proposed model demonstrates competitive results in terms of naturalness and similarity. Importantly, unlike the original VITS model, we use the inverse short-time Fourier transform (iSTFT) to replace the most computationally expensive part. Experimental results show that our model can generate samples at over 5000 kHz on the 3090 GPU and over 250 kHz on the i9-10900K CPU, achieving competitive speed for the same hardware configuration.

## Varianceflow: High-Quality and Controllable Text-to-Speech using Variance Information via Normalizing Flow
- **Authors**: Yoonhyung Lee et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2302.13458](https://arxiv.org/abs/2302.13458)
- **Tags**: synthesis
- **Abstract**: While neural text-to-speech (TTS) has achieved human-like natural synthetic speech, multilingual TTS systems are limited to resource-rich languages due to the need for paired text and studio-quality audio data. This paper proposes a method for zero-shot multilingual TTS using text-only data for the target language. The use of text-only data allows the development of TTS systems for low-resource languages for which only textual resources are available, making TTS accessible to thousands of languages. Inspired by the strong cross-lingual transferability of multilingual language models, our framework first performs masked language model pretraining with multilingual text-only data. Then we train this model with a paired data in a supervised manner, while freezing a language-aware embedding layer. This allows inference even for languages not included in the paired data but present in the text-only data. Evaluation results demonstrate highly intelligible zero-shot TTS with a character error rate of less than 12% for an unseen language.

