# TTS Papers - 2023-09-24

Total: 2

## VoiceLDM: Text-to-Speech with Environmental Context
- **Authors**: Yeonghyeon Lee et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2309.13664](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.13664)
- **Tags**: synthesis
- **Abstract**: Recent advances in text-to-speech, particularly those based on Graph Neural Networks (GNNs), have significantly improved the expressiveness of short-form synthetic speech. However, generating human-parity long-form speech with high dynamic prosodic variations is still challenging. To address this problem, we expand the capabilities of GNNs with a hierarchical prosody modeling approach, named HiGNN-TTS. Specifically, we add a virtual global node in the graph to strengthen the interconnection of word nodes and introduce a contextual attention mechanism to broaden the prosody modeling scope of GNNs from intra-sentence to inter-sentence. Additionally, we perform hierarchical supervision from acoustic prosody on each node of the graph to capture the prosodic variations with a high dynamic range. Ablation studies show the effectiveness of HiGNN-TTS in learning hierarchical prosody. Both objective and subjective evaluations demonstrate that HiGNN-TTS significantly improves the naturalness and expressiveness of long-form synthetic speech.

## Coco-Nut: Corpus of Japanese Utterance and Voice Characteristics Description for Prompt-based Control
- **Authors**: Aya Watanabe et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2309.13509](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.13509)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: This paper presents VoiceLDM, a model designed to produce audio that accurately follows two distinct natural language text prompts: the description prompt and the content prompt. The former provides information about the overall environmental context of the audio, while the latter conveys the linguistic content. To achieve this, we adopt a text-to-audio (TTA) model based on latent diffusion models and extend its functionality to incorporate an additional content prompt as a conditional input. By utilizing pretrained contrastive language-audio pretraining (CLAP) and Whisper, VoiceLDM is trained on large amounts of real-world audio without manual annotations or transcriptions. Additionally, we employ dual classifier-free guidance to further enhance the controllability of VoiceLDM. Experimental results demonstrate that VoiceLDM is capable of generating plausible audio that aligns well with both input conditions, even surpassing the speech intelligibility of the ground truth audio on the AudioCaps test set. Furthermore, we explore the text-to-speech (TTS) and zero-shot text-to-audio capabilities of VoiceLDM and show that it achieves competitive results. Demos and code are available at https://voiceldm.github.io.

