# TTS Papers - 2023-09-22

Total: 3

## DurIAN-E: Duration Informed Attention Network For Expressive Text-to-Speech Synthesis
- **Authors**: Yu Gu et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2309.12792](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.12792)
- **Tags**: expressive, synthesis
- **Abstract**: Current synthetic speech detection (SSD) methods perform well on certain datasets but still face issues of robustness and interpretability. A possible reason is that these methods do not analyze the deficiencies of synthetic speech. In this paper, the flaws of the speaker features inherent in the text-to-speech (TTS) process are analyzed. Differences in the temporal consistency of intra-utterance speaker features arise due to the lack of fine-grained control over speaker features in TTS. Since the speaker representations in TTS are based on speaker embeddings extracted by encoders, the distribution of inter-utterance speaker features differs between synthetic and bonafide speech. Based on these analyzes, an SSD method based on temporal consistency and distribution of speaker features is proposed. On one hand, modeling the temporal consistency of intra-utterance speaker features can aid speech anti-spoofing. On the other hand, distribution differences in inter-utterance speaker features can be utilized for SSD. The proposed method offers low computational complexity and performs well in both cross-dataset and silence trimming scenarios.

## Improving Language Model-Based Zero-Shot Text-to-Speech Synthesis with Multi-Scale Acoustic Prompts
- **Authors**: Shun Lei et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2309.11977](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.11977)
- **Tags**: zero-shot, multilingual, synthesis
- **Abstract**: This paper introduces an improved duration informed attention neural network (DurIAN-E) for expressive and high-fidelity text-to-speech (TTS) synthesis. Inherited from the original DurIAN model, an auto-regressive model structure in which the alignments between the input linguistic information and the output acoustic features are inferred from a duration model is adopted. Meanwhile the proposed DurIAN-E utilizes multiple stacked SwishRNN-based Transformer blocks as linguistic encoders. Style-Adaptive Instance Normalization (SAIN) layers are exploited into frame-level encoders to improve the modeling ability of expressiveness. A denoiser incorporating both denoising diffusion probabilistic model (DDPM) for mel-spectrograms and SAIN modules is conducted to further improve the synthetic speech quality and expressiveness. Experimental results prove that the proposed expressive TTS model in this paper can achieve better performance than the state-of-the-art approaches in both subjective mean opinion score (MOS) and preference tests.

## Sparks of Large Audio Models: A Survey and Outlook
- **Authors**: Siddique Latif et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2308.12792](https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.12792)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: An audiobook can dramatically improve a work of literature's accessibility and improve reader engagement. However, audiobooks can take hundreds of hours of human effort to create, edit, and publish. In this work, we present a system that can automatically generate high-quality audiobooks from online e-books. In particular, we leverage recent advances in neural text-to-speech to create and release thousands of human-quality, open-license audiobooks from the Project Gutenberg e-book collection. Our method can identify the proper subset of e-book content to read for a wide collection of diversely structured books and can operate on hundreds of books in parallel. Our system allows users to customize an audiobook's speaking speed and style, emotional intonation, and can even match a desired voice using a small amount of sample audio. This work contributed over five thousand open-license audiobooks and an interactive demo that allows users to quickly create their own customized audiobooks. To listen to the audiobook collection visit \url{https://aka.ms/audiobook}.

