# TTS Papers - 2023-08-28

Total: 2

## TextrolSpeech: A Text Style Control Speech Corpus With Codec Language Text-to-Speech Models
- **Authors**: Shengpeng Ji et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2308.14430](https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.14430)
- **Tags**: expressive, multilingual, synthesis
- **Abstract**: Benefiting from the development of deep learning, text-to-speech (TTS) techniques using clean speech have achieved significant performance improvements. The data collected from real scenes often contains noise and generally needs to be denoised by speech enhancement models. Noise-robust TTS models are often trained using the enhanced speech, which thus suffer from speech distortion and background noise that affect the quality of the synthesized speech. Meanwhile, it was shown that self-supervised pre-trained models exhibit excellent noise robustness on many speech tasks, implying that the learned representation has a better tolerance for noise perturbations. In this work, we therefore explore pre-trained models to improve the noise robustness of TTS models. Based on HiFi-GAN, we first propose a representation-to-waveform vocoder, which aims to learn to map the representation of pre-trained models to the waveform. We then propose a text-to-representation FastSpeech2 model, which aims to learn to map text to pre-trained model representations. Experimental results on the LJSpeech and LibriTTS datasets show that our method outperforms those using speech enhancement methods in both subjective and objective metrics. Audio samples are available at: https://zqs01.github.io/rep2wav.

## Adversarial Learning of Intermediate Acoustic Feature for End-to-End Lightweight Text-to-Speech
- **Authors**: Hyungchan Yoon et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2204.02172](https://arxiv.org/abs/2204.02172)
- **Tags**: synthesis
- **Abstract**: Most text-to-speech (TTS) methods use high-quality speech corpora recorded in a well-designed environment, incurring a high cost for data collection. To solve this problem, existing noise-robust TTS methods are intended to use noisy speech corpora as training data. However, they only address either time-invariant or time-variant noises. We propose a degradation-robust TTS method, which can be trained on speech corpora that contain both additive noises and environmental distortions. It jointly represents the time-variant additive noises with a frame-level encoder and the time-invariant environmental distortions with an utterance-level encoder. We also propose a regularization method to attain clean environmental embedding that is disentangled from the utterance-dependent information such as linguistic contents and speaker characteristics. Evaluation results show that our method achieved significantly higher-quality synthetic speech than previous methods in the condition including both additive noise and reverberation.

