# TTS Papers - 2023-08-08

Total: 2

## Towards an AI to Win Ghana's National Science and Maths Quiz
- **Authors**: George Boateng et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2308.04333](https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.04333)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: Zero-shot text-to-speech (TTS) aims to synthesize voices with unseen speech prompts, which significantly reduces the data and computation requirements for voice cloning by skipping the fine-tuning process. However, the prompting mechanisms of zero-shot TTS still face challenges in the following aspects: 1) previous works of zero-shot TTS are typically trained with single-sentence prompts, which significantly restricts their performance when the data is relatively sufficient during the inference stage. 2) The prosodic information in prompts is highly coupled with timbre, making it untransferable to each other. This paper introduces Mega-TTS 2, a generic prompting mechanism for zero-shot TTS, to tackle the aforementioned challenges. Specifically, we design a powerful acoustic autoencoder that separately encodes the prosody and timbre information into the compressed latent space while providing high-quality reconstructions. Then, we propose a multi-reference timbre encoder and a prosody latent language model (P-LLM) to extract useful information from multi-sentence prompts. We further leverage the probabilities derived from multiple P-LLM outputs to produce transferable and controllable prosody. Experimental results demonstrate that Mega-TTS 2 could not only synthesize identity-preserving speech with a short prompt of an unseen speaker from arbitrary sources but consistently outperform the fine-tuning method when the volume of data ranges from 10 seconds to 5 minutes. Furthermore, our method enables to transfer various speaking styles to the target timbre in a fine-grained and controlled manner. Audio samples can be found in https://boostprompt.github.io/boostprompt/.

## WonderFlow: Narration-Centric Design of Animated Data Videos
- **Authors**: Yun Wang et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2308.04040](https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.04040)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: This paper presents a French text-to-speech synthesis system for the Blizzard Challenge 2023. The challenge consists of two tasks: generating high-quality speech from female speakers and generating speech that closely resembles specific individuals. Regarding the competition data, we conducted a screening process to remove missing or erroneous text data. We organized all symbols except for phonemes and eliminated symbols that had no pronunciation or zero duration. Additionally, we added word boundary and start/end symbols to the text, which we have found to improve speech quality based on our previous experience. For the Spoke task, we performed data augmentation according to the competition rules. We used an open-source G2P model to transcribe the French texts into phonemes. As the G2P model uses the International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA), we applied the same transcription process to the provided competition data for standardization. However, due to compiler limitations in recognizing special symbols from the IPA chart, we followed the rules to convert all phonemes into the phonetic scheme used in the competition data. Finally, we resampled all competition audio to a uniform sampling rate of 16 kHz. We employed a VITS-based acoustic model with the hifigan vocoder. For the Spoke task, we trained a multi-speaker model and incorporated speaker information into the duration predictor, vocoder, and flow layers of the model. The evaluation results of our system showed a quality MOS score of 3.6 for the Hub task and 3.4 for the Spoke task, placing our system at an average level among all participating teams.

