# TTS Papers - 2023-10-23

Total: 1

## DPP-TTS: Diversifying prosodic features of speech via determinantal point processes
- **Authors**: Seongho Joo et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2310.14663](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.14663)
- **Tags**: synthesis
- **Abstract**: We present the JVNV, a Japanese emotional speech corpus with verbal content and nonverbal vocalizations whose scripts are generated by a large-scale language model. Existing emotional speech corpora lack not only proper emotional scripts but also nonverbal vocalizations (NVs) that are essential expressions in spoken language to express emotions. We propose an automatic script generation method to produce emotional scripts by providing seed words with sentiment polarity and phrases of nonverbal vocalizations to ChatGPT using prompt engineering. We select 514 scripts with balanced phoneme coverage from the generated candidate scripts with the assistance of emotion confidence scores and language fluency scores. We demonstrate the effectiveness of JVNV by showing that JVNV has better phoneme coverage and emotion recognizability than previous Japanese emotional speech corpora. We then benchmark JVNV on emotional text-to-speech synthesis using discrete codes to represent NVs. We show that there still exists a gap between the performance of synthesizing read-aloud speech and emotional speech, and adding NVs in the speech makes the task even harder, which brings new challenges for this task and makes JVNV a valuable resource for relevant works in the future. To our best knowledge, JVNV is the first speech corpus that generates scripts automatically using large language models.

