# TTS Papers - 2023-05-30

Total: 5

## Towards Selection of Text-to-speech Data to Augment ASR Training
- **Authors**: Shuo Liu et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2306.00998](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.00998)
- **Tags**: synthesis
- **Abstract**: With the demand for autonomous control and personalized speech generation, the style control and transfer in Text-to-Speech (TTS) is becoming more and more important. In this paper, we propose a new TTS system that can perform style transfer with interpretability and high fidelity. Firstly, we design a TTS system that combines variational autoencoder (VAE) and diffusion refiner to get refined mel-spectrograms. Specifically, a two-stage and a one-stage system are designed respectively, to improve the audio quality and the performance of style transfer. Secondly, a diffusion bridge of quantized VAE is designed to efficiently learn complex discrete style representations and improve the performance of style transfer. To have a better ability of style transfer, we introduce ControlVAE to improve the reconstruction quality and have good interpretability simultaneously. Experiments on LibriTTS dataset demonstrate that our method is more effective than baseline models.

## Resource-Efficient Fine-Tuning Strategies for Automatic MOS Prediction in Text-to-Speech for Low-Resource Languages
- **Authors**: Phat Do et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2305.19396](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.19396)
- **Tags**: multilingual, synthesis
- **Abstract**: There are significant challenges for speaker adaptation in text-to-speech for languages that are not widely spoken or for speakers with accents or dialects that are not well-represented in the training data. To address this issue, we propose the use of the "mixture of adapters" method. This approach involves adding multiple adapters within a backbone-model layer to learn the unique characteristics of different speakers. Our approach outperforms the baseline, with a noticeable improvement of 5% observed in speaker preference tests when using only one minute of data for each new speaker. Moreover, following the adapter paradigm, we fine-tune only the adapter parameters (11% of the total model parameters). This is a significant achievement in parameter-efficient speaker adaptation, and one of the first models of its kind. Overall, our proposed approach offers a promising solution to the speech synthesis techniques, particularly for adapting to speakers from diverse backgrounds.

## Make-A-Voice: Unified Voice Synthesis With Discrete Representation
- **Authors**: Rongjie Huang et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2305.19269](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.19269)
- **Tags**: synthesis
- **Abstract**: In this paper, we present StyleTTS 2, a text-to-speech (TTS) model that leverages style diffusion and adversarial training with large speech language models (SLMs) to achieve human-level TTS synthesis. StyleTTS 2 differs from its predecessor by modeling styles as a latent random variable through diffusion models to generate the most suitable style for the text without requiring reference speech, achieving efficient latent diffusion while benefiting from the diverse speech synthesis offered by diffusion models. Furthermore, we employ large pre-trained SLMs, such as WavLM, as discriminators with our novel differentiable duration modeling for end-to-end training, resulting in improved speech naturalness. StyleTTS 2 surpasses human recordings on the single-speaker LJSpeech dataset and matches it on the multispeaker VCTK dataset as judged by native English speakers. Moreover, when trained on the LibriTTS dataset, our model outperforms previous publicly available models for zero-shot speaker adaptation. This work achieves the first human-level TTS on both single and multispeaker datasets, showcasing the potential of style diffusion and adversarial training with large SLMs. The audio demos and source code are available at https://styletts2.github.io/.

## STT4SG-350: A Speech Corpus for All Swiss German Dialect Regions
- **Authors**: Michel Plüss et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2305.18855](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.18855)
- **Tags**: multilingual
- **Abstract**: Conversational recommender systems (CRSs) have become crucial emerging research topics in the field of RSs, thanks to their natural advantages of explicitly acquiring user preferences via interactive conversations and revealing the reasons behind recommendations. However, the majority of current CRSs are text-based, which is less user-friendly and may pose challenges for certain users, such as those with visual impairments or limited writing and reading abilities. Therefore, for the first time, this paper investigates the potential of voice-based CRS (VCRSs) to revolutionize the way users interact with RSs in a natural, intuitive, convenient, and accessible fashion. To support such studies, we create two VCRSs benchmark datasets in the e-commerce and movie domains, after realizing the lack of such datasets through an exhaustive literature review. Specifically, we first empirically verify the benefits and necessity of creating such datasets. Thereafter, we convert the user-item interactions to text-based conversations through the ChatGPT-driven prompts for generating diverse and natural templates, and then synthesize the corresponding audios via the text-to-speech model. Meanwhile, a number of strategies are delicately designed to ensure the naturalness and high quality of voice conversations. On this basis, we further explore the potential solutions and point out possible directions to build end-to-end VCRSs by seamlessly extracting and integrating voice-based inputs, thus delivering performance-enhanced, self-explainable, and user-friendly VCRSs. Our study aims to establish the foundation and motivate further pioneering research in the emerging field of VCRSs. This aligns with the principles of explainable AI and AI for social good, viz., utilizing technology's potential to create a fair, sustainable, and just world.

## A Review of Deep Learning Techniques for Speech Processing
- **Authors**: Ambuj Mehrish et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2305.00359](https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.00359)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: TTS, or text-to-speech, is a complicated process that can be accomplished through appropriate modeling using deep learning methods. In order to implement deep learning models, a suitable dataset is required. Since there is a scarce amount of work done in this field for the Persian language, this paper will introduce the single speaker dataset: ArmanTTS. We compared the characteristics of this dataset with those of various prevalent datasets to prove that ArmanTTS meets the necessary standards for teaching a Persian text-to-speech conversion model. We also combined the Tacotron 2 and HiFi GAN to design a model that can receive phonemes as input, with the output being the corresponding speech. 4.0 value of MOS was obtained from real speech, 3.87 value was obtained by the vocoder prediction and 2.98 value was reached with the synthetic speech generated by the TTS model.

