# TTS Papers - 2023-06-28

Total: 2

## EmoSpeech: Guiding FastSpeech2 Towards Emotional Text to Speech
- **Authors**: Daria Diatlova et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2307.00024](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.00024)
- **Tags**: expressive, streaming
- **Abstract**: Direct speech-to-speech translation (S2ST) has gradually become popular as it has many advantages compared with cascade S2ST. However, current research mainly focuses on the accuracy of semantic translation and ignores the speech style transfer from a source language to a target language. The lack of high-fidelity expressive parallel data makes such style transfer challenging, especially in more practical zero-shot scenarios. To solve this problem, we first build a parallel corpus using a multi-lingual multi-speaker text-to-speech synthesis (TTS) system and then propose the StyleS2ST model with cross-lingual speech style transfer ability based on a style adaptor on a direct S2ST system framework. Enabling continuous style space modeling of an acoustic model through parallel corpus training and non-parallel TTS data augmentation, StyleS2ST captures cross-lingual acoustic feature mapping from the source to the target language. Experiments show that StyleS2ST achieves good style similarity and naturalness in both in-set and out-of-set zero-shot scenarios.

## UnitSpeech: Speaker-adaptive Speech Synthesis with Untranscribed Data
- **Authors**: Heeseung Kim et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2306.16083](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.16083)
- **Tags**: synthesis
- **Abstract**: Large-scale generative models such as GPT and DALL-E have revolutionized the research community. These models not only generate high fidelity outputs, but are also generalists which can solve tasks not explicitly taught. In contrast, speech generative models are still primitive in terms of scale and task generalization. In this paper, we present Voicebox, the most versatile text-guided generative model for speech at scale. Voicebox is a non-autoregressive flow-matching model trained to infill speech, given audio context and text, trained on over 50K hours of speech that are not filtered or enhanced. Similar to GPT, Voicebox can perform many different tasks through in-context learning, but is more flexible as it can also condition on future context. Voicebox can be used for mono or cross-lingual zero-shot text-to-speech synthesis, noise removal, content editing, style conversion, and diverse sample generation. In particular, Voicebox outperforms the state-of-the-art zero-shot TTS model VALL-E on both intelligibility (5.9% vs 1.9% word error rates) and audio similarity (0.580 vs 0.681) while being up to 20 times faster. Audio samples can be found in \url{https://voicebox.metademolab.com}.

