# TTS Papers - 2024-08-22

Total: 2

## Positional Description for Numerical Normalization
- **Authors**: Deepanshu Gupta et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2408.12430](https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.12430)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: Discretizing speech into tokens and generating them by a decoder-only model have been a promising direction for text-to-speech (TTS) and spoken language modeling (SLM). To shorten the sequence length of speech tokens, acoustic byte-pair encoding (BPE) has emerged in SLM that treats speech tokens from self-supervised semantic representations as characters to further compress the token sequence. But the gain in TTS has not been fully investigated, and the proper choice of acoustic BPE remains unclear. In this work, we conduct a comprehensive study on various settings of acoustic BPE to explore its effectiveness in decoder-only TTS models with semantic speech tokens. Experiments on LibriTTS verify that acoustic BPE uniformly increases the intelligibility and diversity of synthesized speech, while showing different features across BPE settings. Hence, acoustic BPE is a favorable tool for decoder-only TTS.

## VoiceX: A Text-To-Speech Framework for Custom Voices
- **Authors**: Silvan Mertes et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2408.12170](https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.12170)
- **Tags**: synthesis
- **Abstract**: Anonymity is a powerful component of many participatory media platforms that can afford people greater freedom of expression and protection from external coercion and interference. However, it can be difficult to effectively implement on platforms that leverage spoken language due to distinct biomarkers present in the human voice. In this work, we explore the use of voice anonymization methods within the context of a technology-enhanced civic dialogue network based in the United States, whose purpose is to increase feelings of agency and being heard within civic processes. Specifically, we investigate the use of two different speech transformation and synthesis methods for anonymization: voice conversion (VC) and text-to-speech (TTS). Through a series of two studies, we examine the impact that each method has on 1) the empathy and trust that listeners feel towards a person sharing a personal story, and 2) a speaker's own perception of being heard, finding that voice conversion is an especially suitable method for our purposes. Our findings open up interesting potential research directions related to anonymous spoken discourse, as well as additional ways of engaging with voice-based civic technologies.

