# TTS Papers - 2024-04-10

Total: 2

## CoVoMix: Advancing Zero-Shot Speech Generation for Human-like Multi-talker Conversations
- **Authors**: Leying Zhang et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2404.06690](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.06690)
- **Tags**: zero-shot
- **Abstract**: We introduce a text-to-speech (TTS) model called BASE TTS, which stands for $\textbf{B}$ig $\textbf{A}$daptive $\textbf{S}$treamable TTS with $\textbf{E}$mergent abilities. BASE TTS is the largest TTS model to-date, trained on 100K hours of public domain speech data, achieving a new state-of-the-art in speech naturalness. It deploys a 1-billion-parameter autoregressive Transformer that converts raw texts into discrete codes ("speechcodes") followed by a convolution-based decoder which converts these speechcodes into waveforms in an incremental, streamable manner. Further, our speechcodes are built using a novel speech tokenization technique that features speaker ID disentanglement and compression with byte-pair encoding. Echoing the widely-reported "emergent abilities" of large language models when trained on increasing volume of data, we show that BASE TTS variants built with 10K+ hours and 500M+ parameters begin to demonstrate natural prosody on textually complex sentences. We design and share a specialized dataset to measure these emergent abilities for text-to-speech. We showcase state-of-the-art naturalness of BASE TTS by evaluating against baselines that include publicly available large-scale text-to-speech systems: YourTTS, Bark and TortoiseTTS. Audio samples generated by the model can be heard at https://amazon-ltts-paper.com/.

## The X-LANCE Technical Report for Interspeech 2024 Speech Processing Using Discrete Speech Unit Challenge
- **Authors**: Yiwei Guo et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2404.06079](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.06079)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: Recently, deep learning-based Text-to-Speech (TTS) systems have achieved high-quality speech synthesis results. Recurrent neural networks have become a standard modeling technique for sequential data in TTS systems and are widely used. However, training a TTS model which includes RNN components requires powerful GPU performance and takes a long time. In contrast, CNN-based sequence synthesis techniques can significantly reduce the parameters and training time of a TTS model while guaranteeing a certain performance due to their high parallelism, which alleviate these economic costs of training. In this paper, we propose a lightweight TTS system based on deep convolutional neural networks, which is a two-stage training end-to-end TTS model and does not employ any recurrent units. Our model consists of two stages: Text2Spectrum and SSRN. The former is used to encode phonemes into a coarse mel spectrogram and the latter is used to synthesize the complete spectrum from the coarse mel spectrogram. Meanwhile, we improve the robustness of our model by a series of data augmentations, such as noise suppression, time warping, frequency masking and time masking, for solving the low resource mongolian problem. Experiments show that our model can reduce the training time and parameters while ensuring the quality and naturalness of the synthesized speech compared to using mainstream TTS models. Our method uses NCMMSC2022-MTTSC Challenge dataset for validation, which significantly reduces training time while maintaining a certain accuracy.

