# TTS Papers - 2024-08-30

Total: 4

## SelectTTS: Synthesizing Anyone's Voice via Discrete Unit-Based Frame Selection
- **Authors**: Ismail Rasim Ulgen et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2408.17432](https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.17432)
- **Tags**: synthesis
- **Abstract**: The recent large-scale text-to-speech (TTS) systems are usually grouped as autoregressive and non-autoregressive systems. The autoregressive systems implicitly model duration but exhibit certain deficiencies in robustness and lack of duration controllability. Non-autoregressive systems require explicit alignment information between text and speech during training and predict durations for linguistic units (e.g. phone), which may compromise their naturalness. In this paper, we introduce Masked Generative Codec Transformer (MaskGCT), a fully non-autoregressive TTS model that eliminates the need for explicit alignment information between text and speech supervision, as well as phone-level duration prediction. MaskGCT is a two-stage model: in the first stage, the model uses text to predict semantic tokens extracted from a speech self-supervised learning (SSL) model, and in the second stage, the model predicts acoustic tokens conditioned on these semantic tokens. MaskGCT follows the mask-and-predict learning paradigm. During training, MaskGCT learns to predict masked semantic or acoustic tokens based on given conditions and prompts. During inference, the model generates tokens of a specified length in a parallel manner. Experiments with 100K hours of in-the-wild speech demonstrate that MaskGCT outperforms the current state-of-the-art zero-shot TTS systems in terms of quality, similarity, and intelligibility. Audio samples are available at https://maskgct.github.io/. We release our code and model checkpoints at https://github.com/open-mmlab/Amphion/blob/main/models/tts/maskgct.

## AASIST3: KAN-Enhanced AASIST Speech Deepfake Detection using SSL Features and Additional Regularization for the ASVspoof 2024 Challenge
- **Authors**: Kirill Borodin et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2408.17352](https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.17352)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: In this paper, we introduce a zero-shot Voice Transfer (VT) module that can be seamlessly integrated into a multi-lingual Text-to-speech (TTS) system to transfer an individual's voice across languages. Our proposed VT module comprises a speaker-encoder that processes reference speech, a bottleneck layer, and residual adapters, connected to preexisting TTS layers. We compare the performance of various configurations of these components and report Mean Opinion Score (MOS) and Speaker Similarity across languages. Using a single English reference speech per speaker, we achieve an average voice transfer similarity score of 73% across nine target languages. Vocal characteristics contribute significantly to the construction and perception of individual identity. The loss of one's voice, due to physical or neurological conditions, can lead to a profound sense of loss, impacting one's core identity. As a case study, we demonstrate that our approach can not only transfer typical speech but also restore the voices of individuals with dysarthria, even when only atypical speech samples are available - a valuable utility for those who have never had typical speech or banked their voice. Cross-lingual typical audio samples, plus videos demonstrating voice restoration for dysarthric speakers are available here (google.github.io/tacotron/publications/zero_shot_voice_transfer).

## Codec Does Matter: Exploring the Semantic Shortcoming of Codec for Audio Language Model
- **Authors**: Zhen Ye et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2408.17175](https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.17175)
- **Tags**: multilingual
- **Abstract**: Thanks to advancements in deep learning, speech generation systems now power a variety of real-world applications, such as text-to-speech for individuals with speech disorders, voice chatbots in call centers, cross-linguistic speech translation, etc. While these systems can autonomously generate human-like speech and replicate specific voices, they also pose risks when misused for malicious purposes. This motivates the research community to develop models for detecting synthesized speech (e.g., fake speech) generated by deep-learning-based models, referred to as the Deepfake Speech Detection task. As the Deepfake Speech Detection task has emerged in recent years, there are not many survey papers proposed for this task. Additionally, existing surveys for the Deepfake Speech Detection task tend to summarize techniques used to construct a Deepfake Speech Detection system rather than providing a thorough analysis. This gap motivated us to conduct a comprehensive survey, providing a critical analysis of the challenges and developments in Deepfake Speech Detection. Our survey is innovatively structured, offering an in-depth analysis of current challenge competitions, public datasets, and the deep-learning techniques that provide enhanced solutions to address existing challenges in the field. From our analysis, we propose hypotheses on leveraging and combining specific deep learning techniques to improve the effectiveness of Deepfake Speech Detection systems. Beyond conducting a survey, we perform extensive experiments to validate these hypotheses and propose a highly competitive model for the task of Deepfake Speech Detection. Given the analysis and the experimental results, we finally indicate potential and promising research directions for the Deepfake Speech Detection task.

## Utilizing Speaker Profiles for Impersonation Audio Detection
- **Authors**: Hao Gu et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2408.17009](https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.17009)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: We propose VoiceTailor, a parameter-efficient speaker-adaptive text-to-speech (TTS) system, by equipping a pre-trained diffusion-based TTS model with a personalized adapter. VoiceTailor identifies pivotal modules that benefit from the adapter based on a weight change ratio analysis. We utilize Low-Rank Adaptation (LoRA) as a parameter-efficient adaptation method and incorporate the adapter into pivotal modules of the pre-trained diffusion decoder. To achieve powerful adaptation performance with few parameters, we explore various guidance techniques for speaker adaptation and investigate the best strategies to strengthen speaker information. VoiceTailor demonstrates comparable speaker adaptation performance to existing adaptive TTS models by fine-tuning only 0.25\% of the total parameters. VoiceTailor shows strong robustness when adapting to a wide range of real-world speakers, as shown in the demo.

