# TTS Papers - 2024-07-17

Total: 2

## Laugh Now Cry Later: Controlling Time-Varying Emotional States of Flow-Matching-Based Zero-Shot Text-to-Speech
- **Authors**: Haibin Wu et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2407.12229](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.12229)
- **Tags**: zero-shot, expressive, synthesis
- **Abstract**: Spontaneous style speech synthesis, which aims to generate human-like speech, often encounters challenges due to the scarcity of high-quality data and limitations in model capabilities. Recent language model-based TTS systems can be trained on large, diverse, and low-quality speech datasets, resulting in highly natural synthesized speech. However, they are limited by the difficulty of simulating various spontaneous behaviors and capturing prosody variations in spontaneous speech. In this paper, we propose a novel spontaneous speech synthesis system based on language models. We systematically categorize and uniformly model diverse spontaneous behaviors. Moreover, fine-grained prosody modeling is introduced to enhance the model's ability to capture subtle prosody variations in spontaneous speech.Experimental results show that our proposed method significantly outperforms the baseline methods in terms of prosody naturalness and spontaneous behavior naturalness.

## Learning High-Frequency Functions Made Easy with Sinusoidal Positional Encoding
- **Authors**: Chuanhao Sun et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2407.09370](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.09370)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: While recent advances in Text-To-Speech synthesis have yielded remarkable improvements in generating high-quality speech, research on lightweight and fast models is limited. This paper introduces FLY-TTS, a new fast, lightweight and high-quality speech synthesis system based on VITS. Specifically, 1) We replace the decoder with ConvNeXt blocks that generate Fourier spectral coefficients followed by the inverse short-time Fourier transform to synthesize waveforms; 2) To compress the model size, we introduce the grouped parameter-sharing mechanism to the text encoder and flow-based model; 3) We further employ the large pre-trained WavLM model for adversarial training to improve synthesis quality. Experimental results show that our model achieves a real-time factor of 0.0139 on an Intel Core i9 CPU, 8.8x faster than the baseline (0.1221), with a 1.6x parameter compression. Objective and subjective evaluations indicate that FLY-TTS exhibits comparable speech quality to the strong baseline.

