# TTS Papers - 2024-12-11

Total: 5

## Multimodal Latent Language Modeling with Next-Token Diffusion
- **Authors**: Yutao Sun et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2412.08635](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.08635)
- **Tags**: multilingual
- **Abstract**: The aim of this project is to implement and design arobust synthetic speech classifier for the IEEE Signal ProcessingCup 2022 challenge. Here, we learn a synthetic speech attributionmodel using the speech generated from various text-to-speech(TTS) algorithms as well as unknown TTS algorithms. Weexperiment with both the classical machine learning methodssuch as support vector machine, Gaussian mixture model, anddeep learning based methods such as ResNet, VGG16, and twoshallow end-to-end networks. We observe that deep learningbased methods with raw data demonstrate the best performance.

## A Unified Model For Voice and Accent Conversion In Speech and Singing using Self-Supervised Learning and Feature Extraction
- **Authors**: Sowmya Cheripally et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2412.08312](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.08312)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: Automatic detection of prominence at the word and syllable-levels is critical for building computer-assisted language learning systems. It has been shown that prosody embeddings learned by the current state-of-the-art (SOTA) text-to-speech (TTS) systems could generate word- and syllable-level prominence in the synthesized speech as natural as in native speech. To understand the effectiveness of prosody embeddings from TTS for prominence detection under nonnative context, a comparative analysis is conducted on the embeddings extracted from native and non-native speech considering the prominence-related embeddings: duration, energy, and pitch from a SOTA TTS named FastSpeech2. These embeddings are extracted under two conditions considering: 1) only text, 2) both speech and text. For the first condition, the embeddings are extracted directly from the TTS inference mode, whereas for the second condition, we propose to extract from the TTS under training mode. Experiments are conducted on native speech corpus: Tatoeba, and non-native speech corpus: ISLE. For experimentation, word-level prominence locations are manually annotated for both corpora. The highest relative improvement on word \&amp; syllable-level prominence detection accuracies with the TTS embeddings are found to be 13.7% &amp; 5.9% and 16.2% &amp; 6.9% compared to those with the heuristic-based features and self-supervised Wav2Vec-2.0 representations, respectively.

## A Preliminary Analysis of Automatic Word and Syllable Prominence Detection in Non-Native Speech With Text-to-Speech Prosody Embeddings
- **Authors**: Anindita Mondal et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2412.08283](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.08283)
- **Tags**: expressive, synthesis
- **Abstract**: Singing Voice Synthesis (SVS) aims to generate singing voices of high fidelity and expressiveness. Conventional SVS systems usually utilize an acoustic model to transform a music score into acoustic features, followed by a vocoder to reconstruct the singing voice. It was recently shown that end-to-end modeling is effective in the fields of SVS and Text to Speech (TTS). In this work, we thus present a fully end-to-end SVS method together with a chunkwise streaming inference to address the latency issue for practical usages. Note that this is the first attempt to fully implement end-to-end streaming audio synthesis using latent representations in VAE. We have made specific improvements to enhance the performance of streaming SVS using latent representations. Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed method achieves synthesized audio with high expressiveness and pitch accuracy in both streaming SVS and TTS tasks.

## LatentSpeech: Latent Diffusion for Text-To-Speech Generation
- **Authors**: Haowei Lou et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2412.08117](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.08117)
- **Tags**: synthesis
- **Abstract**: This study seeks to identify the potential role of AI-driven assistive technologies in enhancing access to libraries for persons with varying degrees of challenges. Traditional libraries pose a problem to many users with vision and mobility, among other conditions related to physical and infirmities. This mixed-methods research approach will examine ways in which AI-powered assistive tools and applications associated with text-to-speech, navigation systems, and personalized assistants are revolutionizing library services through a literature review, survey methods, interviews, and case studies. Our findings suggest that these technologies greatly increase the autonomy and participation of people with physical disabilities, providing personalized support and access to a wide range of resources. From this, some key findings have been deduced from the research, showing a strong impact on user experience and efficiency in services, while at the same time bringing out important considerations related to privacy and ethical implementation. This study highlights the central role of AI in making library settings more inclusive, thereby allowing equal access to knowledge and participation in the community. Such insight thus serves professionals working in libraries, policymakers, and technology developers for innovations to occur uninterruptedly, with future research directions proposed that would refine such technologies, especially toward the special needs of diverse populations. By adopting AI, libraries could uphold their mission of providing equal access to knowledge through full and equal participation of all persons, regardless of any type of physical ability, in the learning and community activities carried out by the library. This study paves the way for future innovations in creating more accessible and inclusive library spaces.

## Aligner-Guided Training Paradigm: Advancing Text-to-Speech Models with Aligner Guided Duration
- **Authors**: Haowei Lou et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2412.08112](https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.08112)
- **Tags**: synthesis
- **Abstract**: We introduce GLM-4-Voice, an intelligent and human-like end-to-end spoken chatbot. It supports both Chinese and English, engages in real-time voice conversations, and varies vocal nuances such as emotion, intonation, speech rate, and dialect according to user instructions. GLM-4-Voice uses an ultra-low bitrate (175bps), single-codebook speech tokenizer with 12.5Hz frame rate derived from an automatic speech recognition (ASR) model by incorporating a vector-quantized bottleneck into the encoder. To efficiently transfer knowledge from text to speech modalities, we synthesize speech-text interleaved data from existing text pre-training corpora using a text-to-token model. We continue pre-training from the pre-trained text language model GLM-4-9B with a combination of unsupervised speech data, interleaved speech-text data, and supervised speech-text data, scaling up to 1 trillion tokens, achieving state-of-the-art performance in both speech language modeling and spoken question answering. We then fine-tune the pre-trained model with high-quality conversational speech data, achieving superior performance compared to existing baselines in both conversational ability and speech quality. The open models can be accessed through https://github.com/THUDM/GLM-4-Voice and https://huggingface.co/THUDM/glm-4-voice-9b.

