# TTS Papers - 2024-08-27

Total: 2

## StyleSpeech: Parameter-efficient Fine Tuning for Pre-trained Controllable Text-to-Speech
- **Authors**: Haowei Lou et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2408.14713](https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.14713)
- **Tags**: expressive, synthesis
- **Abstract**: Fake audio detection is an emerging active topic. A growing number of literatures have aimed to detect fake utterance, which are mostly generated by Text-to-speech (TTS) or voice conversion (VC). However, countermeasures against impersonation remain an underexplored area. Impersonation is a fake type that involves an imitator replicating specific traits and speech style of a target speaker. Unlike TTS and VC, which often leave digital traces or signal artifacts, impersonation involves live human beings producing entirely natural speech, rendering the detection of impersonation audio a challenging task. Thus, we propose a novel method that integrates speaker profiles into the process of impersonation audio detection. Speaker profiles are inherent characteristics that are challenging for impersonators to mimic accurately, such as speaker's age, job. We aim to leverage these features to extract discriminative information for detecting impersonation audio. Moreover, there is no large impersonated speech corpora available for quantitative study of impersonation impacts. To address this gap, we further design the first large-scale, diverse-speaker Chinese impersonation dataset, named ImPersonation Audio Detection (IPAD), to advance the community's research on impersonation audio detection. We evaluate several existing fake audio detection methods on our proposed dataset IPAD, demonstrating its necessity and the challenges. Additionally, our findings reveal that incorporating speaker profiles can significantly enhance the model's performance in detecting impersonation audio.

## DualSpeech: Enhancing Speaker-Fidelity and Text-Intelligibility Through Dual Classifier-Free Guidance
- **Authors**: Jinhyeok Yang et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2408.14423](https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.14423)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: The rapid advancement of large language models (LLMs) has significantly propelled the development of text-based chatbots, demonstrating their capability to engage in coherent and contextually relevant dialogues. However, extending these advancements to enable end-to-end speech-to-speech conversation bots remains a formidable challenge, primarily due to the extensive dataset and computational resources required. The conventional approach of cascading automatic speech recognition (ASR), LLM, and text-to-speech (TTS) models in a pipeline, while effective, suffers from unnatural prosody because it lacks direct interactions between the input audio and its transcribed text and the output audio. These systems are also limited by their inherent latency from the ASR process for real-time applications. This paper introduces Style-Talker, an innovative framework that fine-tunes an audio LLM alongside a style-based TTS model for fast spoken dialog generation. Style-Talker takes user input audio and uses transcribed chat history and speech styles to generate both the speaking style and text for the response. Subsequently, the TTS model synthesizes the speech, which is then played back to the user. While the response speech is being played, the input speech undergoes ASR processing to extract the transcription and speaking style, serving as the context for the ensuing dialogue turn. This novel pipeline accelerates the traditional cascade ASR-LLM-TTS systems while integrating rich paralinguistic information from input speech. Our experimental results show that Style-Talker significantly outperforms the conventional cascade and speech-to-speech baselines in terms of both dialogue naturalness and coherence while being more than 50% faster.

