# TTS Papers - 2024-06-04

Total: 3

## Seed-TTS: A Family of High-Quality Versatile Speech Generation Models
- **Authors**: Philip Anastassiou et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2406.02430](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.02430)
- **Tags**: synthesis
- **Abstract**: The Large Language models (LLMs) have demonstrated supreme capabilities in text understanding and generation, but cannot be directly applied to cross-modal tasks without fine-tuning. This paper proposes a cross-modal in-context learning approach, empowering the frozen LLMs to achieve multiple audio tasks in a few-shot style without any parameter update. Specifically, we propose a novel and LLMs-driven audio codec model, LLM-Codec, to transfer the audio modality into the textual space, \textit{i.e.} representing audio tokens with words or sub-words in the vocabulary of LLMs, while keeping high audio reconstruction quality. The key idea is to reduce the modality heterogeneity between text and audio by compressing the audio modality into a well-trained LLMs token space. Thus, the audio representation can be viewed as a new \textit{foreign language}, and LLMs can learn the new \textit{foreign language} with several demonstrations. In experiments, we investigate the performance of the proposed approach across multiple audio understanding and generation tasks, \textit{e.g.} speech emotion classification, audio classification, text-to-speech generation, speech enhancement, etc. The experimental results demonstrate that the LLMs equipped with the proposed LLM-Codec, named as UniAudio 1.5, prompted by only a few examples, can achieve the expected functions in simple scenarios. It validates the feasibility and effectiveness of the proposed cross-modal in-context learning approach. To facilitate research on few-shot audio task learning and multi-modal LLMs, we have open-sourced the LLM-Codec model.

## BiVocoder: A Bidirectional Neural Vocoder Integrating Feature Extraction and Waveform Generation
- **Authors**: Hui-Peng Du et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2406.02162](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.02162)
- **Tags**: codec
- **Abstract**: Speech discrete representation has proven effective in various downstream applications due to its superior compression rate of the waveform, fast convergence during training, and compatibility with other modalities. Discrete units extracted from self-supervised learning (SSL) models have emerged as a prominent approach for obtaining speech discrete representation. However, while discrete units have shown effectiveness compared to spectral features, they still lag behind continuous SSL representations. In this work, we propose MMM, a multi-layer multi-residual multi-stream discrete units extraction method from SSL. Specifically, we introduce iterative residual vector quantization with K-means for different layers in an SSL model to extract multi-stream speech discrete representation. Through extensive experiments in speech recognition, speech resynthesis, and text-to-speech, we demonstrate the proposed MMM can surpass or on-par with neural codec's performance under various conditions.

## Phonetic Enhanced Language Modeling for Text-to-Speech Synthesis
- **Authors**: Kun Zhou et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2406.02009](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.02009)
- **Tags**: multilingual, synthesis
- **Abstract**: Audio-visual alignment after dubbing is a challenging research problem. To this end, we propose a novel method, DubWise Multi-modal Large Language Model (LLM)-based Text-to-Speech (TTS), which can control the speech duration of synthesized speech in such a way that it aligns well with the speakers lip movements given in the reference video even when the spoken text is different or in a different language. To accomplish this, we propose to utilize cross-modal attention techniques in a pre-trained GPT-based TTS. We combine linguistic tokens from text, speaker identity tokens via a voice cloning network, and video tokens via a proposed duration controller network. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our system on the Lip2Wav-Chemistry and LRS2 datasets. Also, the proposed method achieves improved lip sync and naturalness compared to the SOTAs for the same language but different text (i.e., non-parallel) and the different language, different text (i.e., cross-lingual) scenarios.

