# TTS Papers - 2024-01-03

Total: 2

## Incremental FastPitch: Chunk-based High Quality Text to Speech
- **Authors**: Muyang Du et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2401.01755](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.01755)
- **Tags**: streaming
- **Abstract**: We propose a novel text-to-speech (TTS) framework centered around a neural transducer. Our approach divides the whole TTS pipeline into semantic-level sequence-to-sequence (seq2seq) modeling and fine-grained acoustic modeling stages, utilizing discrete semantic tokens obtained from wav2vec2.0 embeddings. For a robust and efficient alignment modeling, we employ a neural transducer named token transducer for the semantic token prediction, benefiting from its hard monotonic alignment constraints. Subsequently, a non-autoregressive (NAR) speech generator efficiently synthesizes waveforms from these semantic tokens. Additionally, a reference speech controls temporal dynamics and acoustic conditions at each stage. This decoupled framework reduces the training complexity of TTS while allowing each stage to focus on semantic and acoustic modeling. Our experimental results on zero-shot adaptive TTS demonstrate that our model surpasses the baseline in terms of speech quality and speaker similarity, both objectively and subjectively. We also delve into the inference speed and prosody control capabilities of our approach, highlighting the potential of neural transducers in TTS frameworks.

## Utilizing Neural Transducers for Two-Stage Text-to-Speech via Semantic Token Prediction
- **Authors**: Minchan Kim et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2401.01498](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.01498)
- **Tags**: codec, synthesis
- **Abstract**: Spoken language understanding (SLU) systems often exhibit suboptimal performance in processing atypical speech, typically caused by neurological conditions and motor impairments. Recent advancements in Text-to-Speech (TTS) synthesis-based augmentation for more fair SLU have struggled to accurately capture the unique vocal characteristics of atypical speakers, largely due to insufficient data. To address this issue, we present a novel data augmentation method for atypical speakers by finetuning a TTS model, called Aty-TTS. Aty-TTS models speaker and atypical characteristics via knowledge transferring from a voice conversion model. Then, we use the augmented data to train SLU models adapted to atypical speech. To train these data augmentation models and evaluate the resulting SLU systems, we have collected a new atypical speech dataset containing intent annotation. Both objective and subjective assessments validate that Aty-TTS is capable of generating high-quality atypical speech. Furthermore, it serves as an effective data augmentation strategy, contributing to more fair SLU systems that can better accommodate individuals with atypical speech patterns.

