# TTS Papers - 2024-03-17

Total: 2

## Creating an African American-Sounding TTS: Guidelines, Technical Challenges,and Surprising Evaluations
- **Authors**: Claudio Pinhanez et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2403.11209](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11209)
- **Tags**: synthesis
- **Abstract**: Large Language Models (LLMs) have recently emerged as a focal point of research and application, driven by their unprecedented ability to understand and generate text with human-like quality. Even more recently, LLMs have been extended into multi-modal large language models (MM-LLMs) which extends their capabilities to deal with image, video and audio information, in addition to text. This opens up applications like text-to-video generation, image captioning, text-to-speech, and more and is achieved either by retro-fitting an LLM with multi-modal capabilities, or building a MM-LLM from scratch. This paper provides an extensive review of the current state of those LLMs with multi-modal capabilities as well as the very recent MM-LLMs. It covers the historical development of LLMs especially the advances enabled by transformer-based architectures like OpenAI's GPT series and Google's BERT, as well as the role of attention mechanisms in enhancing model performance. The paper includes coverage of the major and most important of the LLMs and MM-LLMs and also covers the techniques of model tuning, including fine-tuning and prompt engineering, which tailor pre-trained models to specific tasks or domains. Ethical considerations and challenges, such as data bias and model misuse, are also analysed to underscore the importance of responsible AI development and deployment. Finally, we discuss the implications of open-source versus proprietary models in AI research. Through this review, we provide insights into the transformative potential of MM-LLMs in various applications.

## EM-TTS: Efficiently Trained Low-Resource Mongolian Lightweight Text-to-Speech
- **Authors**: Ziqi Liang et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2403.08164](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.08164)
- **Tags**: synthesis
- **Abstract**: With the emergence of neural audio codecs, which encode multiple streams of discrete tokens from audio, large language models have recently gained attention as a promising approach for zero-shot Text-to-Speech (TTS) synthesis. Despite the ongoing rush towards scaling paradigms, audio tokenization ironically amplifies the scalability challenge, stemming from its long sequence length and the complexity of modelling the multiple sequences. To mitigate these issues, we present CLaM-TTS that employs a probabilistic residual vector quantization to (1) achieve superior compression in the token length, and (2) allow a language model to generate multiple tokens at once, thereby eliminating the need for cascaded modeling to handle the number of token streams. Our experimental results demonstrate that CLaM-TTS is better than or comparable to state-of-the-art neural codec-based TTS models regarding naturalness, intelligibility, speaker similarity, and inference speed. In addition, we examine the impact of the pretraining extent of the language models and their text tokenization strategies on performances.

