# TTS Papers - 2024-03-20

Total: 3

## Isometric Neural Machine Translation using Phoneme Count Ratio Reward-based Reinforcement Learning
- **Authors**: Shivam Ratnakant Mhaskar et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2403.15469](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.15469)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: Conventional text-to-speech (TTS) research has predominantly focused on enhancing the quality of synthesized speech for speakers in the training dataset. The challenge of synthesizing lifelike speech for unseen, out-of-dataset speakers, especially those with limited reference data, remains a significant and unresolved problem. While zero-shot or few-shot speaker-adaptive TTS approaches have been explored, they have many limitations. Zero-shot approaches tend to suffer from insufficient generalization performance to reproduce the voice of speakers with heavy accents. While few-shot methods can reproduce highly varying accents, they bring a significant storage burden and the risk of overfitting and catastrophic forgetting. In addition, prior approaches only provide either zero-shot or few-shot adaptation, constraining their utility across varied real-world scenarios with different demands. Besides, most current evaluations of speaker-adaptive TTS are conducted only on datasets of native speakers, inadvertently neglecting a vast portion of non-native speakers with diverse accents. Our proposed framework unifies both zero-shot and few-shot speaker adaptation strategies, which we term as "instant" and "fine-grained" adaptations based on their merits. To alleviate the insufficient generalization performance observed in zero-shot speaker adaptation, we designed two innovative discriminators and introduced a memory mechanism for the speech decoder. To prevent catastrophic forgetting and reduce storage implications for few-shot speaker adaptation, we designed two adapters and a unique adaptation procedure.

## UTDUSS: UTokyo-SaruLab System for Interspeech2024 Speech Processing Using Discrete Speech Unit Challenge
- **Authors**: Wataru Nakata et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2403.13720](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.13720)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: In this paper, we introduce a novel approach to address the task of synthesizing speech from silent videos of any in-the-wild speaker solely based on lip movements. The traditional approach of directly generating speech from lip videos faces the challenge of not being able to learn a robust language model from speech alone, resulting in unsatisfactory outcomes. To overcome this issue, we propose incorporating noisy text supervision using a state-of-the-art lip-to-text network that instills language information into our model. The noisy text is generated using a pre-trained lip-to-text model, enabling our approach to work without text annotations during inference. We design a visual text-to-speech network that utilizes the visual stream to generate accurate speech, which is in-sync with the silent input video. We perform extensive experiments and ablation studies, demonstrating our approach's superiority over the current state-of-the-art methods on various benchmark datasets. Further, we demonstrate an essential practical application of our method in assistive technology by generating speech for an ALS patient who has lost the voice but can make mouth movements. Our demo video, code, and additional details can be found at \url{http://cvit.iiit.ac.in/research/projects/cvit-projects/ms-l2s-itw}.

## Building speech corpus with diverse voice characteristics for its prompt-based representation
- **Authors**: Aya Watanabe et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2403.13353](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.13353)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: Traditional Automatic Video Dubbing (AVD) pipeline consists of three key modules, namely, Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR), Neural Machine Translation (NMT), and Text-to-Speech (TTS). Within AVD pipelines, isometric-NMT algorithms are employed to regulate the length of the synthesized output text. This is done to guarantee synchronization with respect to the alignment of video and audio subsequent to the dubbing process. Previous approaches have focused on aligning the number of characters and words in the source and target language texts of Machine Translation models. However, our approach aims to align the number of phonemes instead, as they are closely associated with speech duration. In this paper, we present the development of an isometric NMT system using Reinforcement Learning (RL), with a focus on optimizing the alignment of phoneme counts in the source and target language sentence pairs. To evaluate our models, we propose the Phoneme Count Compliance (PCC) score, which is a measure of length compliance. Our approach demonstrates a substantial improvement of approximately 36% in the PCC score compared to the state-of-the-art models when applied to English-Hindi language pairs. Moreover, we propose a student-teacher architecture within the framework of our RL approach to maintain a trade-off between the phoneme count and translation quality.

