# TTS Papers - 2024-10-22

Total: 2

## Continuous Speech Tokenizer in Text To Speech
- **Authors**: Yixing Li et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2410.17081](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.17081)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: Recent text-to-speech (TTS) developments have made voice cloning (VC) more realistic, affordable, and easily accessible. This has given rise to many potential abuses of this technology, including Joe Biden's New Hampshire deepfake robocall. Several methodologies have been proposed to detect such clones. However, these methodologies have been trained and evaluated on relatively clean databases. Recently, ASVspoof 5 Challenge introduced a new crowd-sourced database of diverse acoustic conditions including various spoofing attacks and codec conditions. This paper is our submission to the ASVspoof 5 Challenge and aims to investigate the performance of Audio Spoof Detection, trained using data augmentation through laundering attacks, on the ASVSpoof 5 database. The results demonstrate that our system performs worst on A18, A19, A20, A26, and A30 spoofing attacks and in the codec and compression conditions of C08, C09, and C10.

## Enhancing Low-Resource ASR through Versatile TTS: Bridging the Data Gap
- **Authors**: Guanrou Yang et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2410.16726](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.16726)
- **Tags**: synthesis
- **Abstract**: With just a few speech samples, it is possible to perfectly replicate a speaker's voice in recent years, while malicious voice exploitation (e.g., telecom fraud for illegal financial gain) has brought huge hazards in our daily lives. Therefore, it is crucial to protect publicly accessible speech data that contains sensitive information, such as personal voiceprints. Most previous defense methods have focused on spoofing speaker verification systems in timbre similarity but the synthesized deepfake speech is still of high quality. In response to the rising hazards, we devise an effective, transferable, and robust proactive protection technology named Pivotal Objective Perturbation (POP) that applies imperceptible error-minimizing noises on original speech samples to prevent them from being effectively learned for text-to-speech (TTS) synthesis models so that high-quality deepfake speeches cannot be generated. We conduct extensive experiments on state-of-the-art (SOTA) TTS models utilizing objective and subjective metrics to comprehensively evaluate our proposed method. The experimental results demonstrate outstanding effectiveness and transferability across various models. Compared to the speech unclarity score of 21.94% from voice synthesizers trained on samples without protection, POP-protected samples significantly increase it to 127.31%. Moreover, our method shows robustness against noise reduction and data augmentation techniques, thereby greatly reducing potential hazards.

