# TTS Papers - 2024-09-13

Total: 2

## AccentBox: Towards High-Fidelity Zero-Shot Accent Generation
- **Authors**: Jinzuomu Zhong et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2409.09098](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.09098)
- **Tags**: zero-shot
- **Abstract**: Diffusion models have achieved remarkable success in text-to-speech (TTS), even in zero-shot scenarios. Recent efforts aim to address the trade-off between inference speed and sound quality, often considered the primary drawback of diffusion models. However, we find a critical mispronunciation issue is being overlooked. Our preliminary study reveals the unstable pronunciation resulting from the diffusion process. Based on this observation, we introduce StableForm-TTS, a novel zero-shot speech synthesis framework designed to produce robust pronunciation while maintaining the advantages of diffusion modeling. By pioneering the adoption of source-filter theory in diffusion TTS, we propose an elaborate architecture for stable formant generation. Experimental results on unseen speakers show that our model outperforms the state-of-the-art method in terms of pronunciation accuracy and naturalness, with comparable speaker similarity. Moreover, our model demonstrates effective scalability as both data and model sizes increase. Audio samples are available online: https://deepbrainai-research.github.io/stableformtts/.

## Text-To-Speech Synthesis In The Wild
- **Authors**: Jee-weon Jung et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2409.08711](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.08711)
- **Tags**: synthesis
- **Abstract**: This paper introduces the concept of an education tool that utilizes Generative Artificial Intelligence (GenAI) to enhance storytelling. We evaluate GenAI-driven narrative co-creation, text-to-speech conversion, text-to-music and text-to-video generation to produce an engaging experience for learners. We describe the co-creation process, the adaptation of narratives into spoken words using text-to-speech models, and the transformation of these narratives into contextually relevant visuals through text-to-video technology. Our evaluation covers the linguistics of the generated stories, the text-to-speech conversion quality, and the accuracy of the generated visuals.

