# TTS Papers - 2024-01-25

Total: 2

## Text to speech synthesis
- **Authors**: Harini s et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2401.13891](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.13891)
- **Tags**: synthesis
- **Abstract**: This paper presents an effective transfer learning framework for language adaptation in text-to-speech systems, with a focus on achieving language adaptation using minimal labeled and unlabeled data. While many works focus on reducing the usage of labeled data, very few consider minimizing the usage of unlabeled data. By utilizing self-supervised features in the pretraining stage, replacing the noisy portion of pseudo labels with these features during fine-tuning, and incorporating an embedding initialization trick, our method leverages more information from unlabeled data compared to conventional approaches. Experimental results show that our framework is able to synthesize intelligible speech in unseen languages with only 4 utterances of labeled data and 15 minutes of unlabeled data. Our methodology continues to surpass conventional techniques, even when a greater volume of data is accessible. These findings highlight the potential of our data-efficient language adaptation framework.

## SpeechGPT-Gen: Scaling Chain-of-Information Speech Generation
- **Authors**: Dong Zhang et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2401.13527](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.13527)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: The style transfer task in Text-to-Speech refers to the process of transferring style information into text content to generate corresponding speech with a specific style. However, most existing style transfer approaches are either based on fixed emotional labels or reference speech clips, which cannot achieve flexible style transfer. Recently, some methods have adopted text descriptions to guide style transfer. In this paper, we propose a more flexible multi-modal and style controllable TTS framework named MM-TTS. It can utilize any modality as the prompt in unified multi-modal prompt space, including reference speech, emotional facial images, and text descriptions, to control the style of the generated speech in a system. The challenges of modeling such a multi-modal style controllable TTS mainly lie in two aspects:1)aligning the multi-modal information into a unified style space to enable the input of arbitrary modality as the style prompt in a single system, and 2)efficiently transferring the unified style representation into the given text content, thereby empowering the ability to generate prompt style-related voice. To address these problems, we propose an aligned multi-modal prompt encoder that embeds different modalities into a unified style space, supporting style transfer for different modalities. Additionally, we present a new adaptive style transfer method named Style Adaptive Convolutions to achieve a better style representation. Furthermore, we design a Rectified Flow based Refiner to solve the problem of over-smoothing Mel-spectrogram and generate audio of higher fidelity. Since there is no public dataset for multi-modal TTS, we construct a dataset named MEAD-TTS, which is related to the field of expressive talking head. Our experiments on the MEAD-TTS dataset and out-of-domain datasets demonstrate that MM-TTS can achieve satisfactory results based on multi-modal prompts.

