# TTS Papers - 2024-10-10

Total: 2

## Unsupervised Data Validation Methods for Efficient Model Training
- **Authors**: Yurii Paniv et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2410.07880](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.07880)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: Cascaded speech-to-speech translation systems often suffer from the error accumulation problem and high latency, which is a result of cascaded modules whose inference delays accumulate. In this paper, we propose a transducer-based speech translation model that outputs discrete speech tokens in a low-latency streaming fashion. This approach eliminates the need for generating text output first, followed by machine translation (MT) and text-to-speech (TTS) systems. The produced speech tokens can be directly used to generate a speech signal with low latency by utilizing an acoustic language model (LM) to obtain acoustic tokens and an audio codec model to retrieve the waveform. Experimental results show that the proposed method outperforms other existing approaches and achieves state-of-the-art results for streaming translation in terms of BLEU, average latency, and BLASER 2.0 scores for multiple language pairs using the CVSS-C dataset as a benchmark.

## SONAR: A Synthetic AI-Audio Detection Framework and Benchmark
- **Authors**: Xiang Li et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2410.04324](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.04324)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: Recent studies have outlined the accessibility challenges faced by blind or visually impaired, and less-literate people, in interacting with social networks, in-spite of facilitating technologies such as monotone text-to-speech (TTS) screen readers and audio narration of visual elements such as emojis. Emotional speech generation traditionally relies on human input of the expected emotion together with the text to synthesise, with additional challenges around data simplification (causing information loss) and duration inaccuracy, leading to lack of expressive emotional rendering. In real-life communications, the duration of phonemes can vary since the same sentence might be spoken in a variety of ways depending on the speakers' emotional states or accents (referred to as the one-to-many problem of text to speech generation). As a result, an advanced voice synthesis system is required to account for this unpredictability. We propose an end-to-end context-aware Text-to-Speech (TTS) synthesis system that derives the conveyed emotion from text input and synthesises audio that focuses on emotions and speaker features for natural and expressive speech, integrating advanced natural language processing (NLP) and speech synthesis techniques for real-time applications. Our system also showcases competitive inference time performance when benchmarked against the state-of-the-art TTS models, making it suitable for real-time accessibility applications.

