# TTS Papers - 2024-04-06

Total: 2

## HyperTTS: Parameter Efficient Adaptation in Text to Speech using Hypernetworks
- **Authors**: Yingting Li et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2404.04645](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.04645)
- **Tags**: synthesis
- **Abstract**: Identifying keywords in an open-vocabulary context is crucial for personalizing interactions with smart devices. Previous approaches to open vocabulary keyword spotting dependon a shared embedding space created by audio and text encoders. However, these approaches suffer from heterogeneous modality representations (i.e., audio-text mismatch). To address this issue, our proposed framework leverages knowledge acquired from a pre-trained text-to-speech (TTS) system. This knowledge transfer allows for the incorporation of awareness of audio projections into the text representations derived from the text encoder. The performance of the proposed approach is compared with various baseline methods across four different datasets. The robustness of our proposed model is evaluated by assessing its performance across different word lengths and in an Out-of-Vocabulary (OOV) scenario. Additionally, the effectiveness of transfer learning from the TTS system is investigated by analyzing its different intermediate representations. The experimental results indicate that, in the challenging LibriPhrase Hard dataset, the proposed approach outperformed the cross-modality correspondence detector (CMCD) method by a significant improvement of 8.22% in area under the curve (AUC) and 12.56% in equal error rate (EER).

## RALL-E: Robust Codec Language Modeling with Chain-of-Thought Prompting for Text-to-Speech Synthesis
- **Authors**: Detai Xin et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2404.03204](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.03204)
- **Tags**: multilingual, synthesis
- **Abstract**: We introduce VoiceCraft, a token infilling neural codec language model, that achieves state-of-the-art performance on both speech editing and zero-shot text-to-speech (TTS) on audiobooks, internet videos, and podcasts. VoiceCraft employs a Transformer decoder architecture and introduces a token rearrangement procedure that combines causal masking and delayed stacking to enable generation within an existing sequence. On speech editing tasks, VoiceCraft produces edited speech that is nearly indistinguishable from unedited recordings in terms of naturalness, as evaluated by humans; for zero-shot TTS, our model outperforms prior SotA models including VALLE and the popular commercial model XTTS-v2. Crucially, the models are evaluated on challenging and realistic datasets, that consist of diverse accents, speaking styles, recording conditions, and background noise and music, and our model performs consistently well compared to other models and real recordings. In particular, for speech editing evaluation, we introduce a high quality, challenging, and realistic dataset named RealEdit. We encourage readers to listen to the demos at https://jasonppy.github.io/VoiceCraft_web.

