# TTS Papers - 2024-10-17

Total: 4

## Enhancing Crowdsourced Audio for Text-to-Speech Models
- **Authors**: José Giraldo et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2410.13357](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.13357)
- **Tags**: synthesis
- **Abstract**: The performance of a text-to-speech (TTS) synthesis model depends on various factors, of which the quality of the training data is of utmost importance. Millions of data are collected around the globe for various languages, but resources for Indian languages are few. Although there are many efforts involved in data collection, a common set of protocols for data collection becomes necessary for building TTS systems in Indian languages primarily because of the need for a uniform development of TTS systems across languages. In this paper, we present our learnings on data collection efforts' for Indic languages over 15 years. These databases have been used in unit selection synthesis, hidden Markov model based, and end-to-end frameworks, and for generating prosodically rich TTS systems. The most significant feature of the data collected is that data purity enables building high-quality TTS systems with a comparatively small dataset compared to that of European/Chinese languages.

## DART: Disentanglement of Accent and Speaker Representation in Multispeaker Text-to-Speech
- **Authors**: Jan Melechovsky et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2410.13342](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.13342)
- **Tags**: synthesis
- **Abstract**: Large language models (LLMs) have revolutionized natural language processing (NLP) with impressive performance across various text-based tasks. However, the extension of text-dominant LLMs to with speech generation tasks remains under-explored. In this work, we introduce a text-to-speech (TTS) system powered by a fine-tuned Llama model, named TTS-Llama, that achieves state-of-the-art speech synthesis performance. Building on TTS-Llama, we further propose MoLE-Llama, a text-and-speech multimodal LLM developed through purely late-fusion parameter-efficient fine-tuning (PEFT) and a mixture-of-expert architecture. Extensive empirical results demonstrate MoLE-Llama's competitive performance on both text-only question-answering (QA) and TTS tasks, mitigating catastrophic forgetting issue in either modality. Finally, we further explore MoLE-Llama in text-in-speech-out QA tasks, demonstrating its great potential as a multimodal dialog system capable of speech generation.

## DurIAN-E 2: Duration Informed Attention Network with Adaptive Variational Autoencoder and Adversarial Learning for Expressive Text-to-Speech Synthesis
- **Authors**: Yu Gu et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2410.13288](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.13288)
- **Tags**: expressive, synthesis
- **Abstract**: While frontier large language models (LLMs) are capable tool-using agents, current AI systems still operate in a strict turn-based fashion, oblivious to passage of time. This synchronous design forces user queries and tool-use to occur sequentially, preventing the systems from multitasking and reducing interactivity. To address this limitation, we introduce asynchronous AI agents capable of parallel processing and real-time tool-use. Our key contribution is an event-driven finite-state machine architecture for agent execution and prompting, integrated with automatic speech recognition and text-to-speech. Drawing inspiration from the concepts originally developed for real-time operating systems, this work presents both a conceptual framework and practical tools for creating AI agents capable of fluid, multitasking interactions.

## Failing Forward: Improving Generative Error Correction for ASR with Synthetic Data and Retrieval Augmentation
- **Authors**: Sreyan Ghosh et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2410.13198](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.13198)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: High-quality audio data is a critical prerequisite for training robust text-to-speech models, which often limits the use of opportunistic or crowdsourced datasets. This paper presents an approach to overcome this limitation by implementing a denoising pipeline on the Catalan subset of Commonvoice, a crowd-sourced corpus known for its inherent noise and variability. The pipeline incorporates an audio enhancement phase followed by a selective filtering strategy. We developed an automatic filtering mechanism leveraging Non-Intrusive Speech Quality Assessment (NISQA) models to identify and retain the highest quality samples post-enhancement. To evaluate the efficacy of this approach, we trained a state of the art diffusion-based TTS model on the processed dataset. The results show a significant improvement, with an increase of 0.4 in the UTMOS Score compared to the baseline dataset without enhancement. This methodology shows promise for expanding the utility of crowdsourced data in TTS applications, particularly for mid to low resource languages like Catalan.

