# TTS Papers - 2024-06-30

Total: 3

## NAIST Simultaneous Speech Translation System for IWSLT 2024
- **Authors**: Yuka Ko et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2407.00826](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.00826)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: Neural codec language model (LM) has demonstrated strong capability in zero-shot text-to-speech (TTS) synthesis. However, the codec LM often suffers from limitations in inference speed and stability, due to its auto-regressive nature and implicit alignment between text and audio. In this work, to handle these challenges, we introduce a new variant of neural codec LM, namely TacoLM. Specifically, TacoLM introduces a gated attention mechanism to improve the training and inference efficiency and reduce the model size. Meanwhile, an additional gated cross-attention layer is included for each decoder layer, which improves the efficiency and content accuracy of the synthesized speech. In the evaluation of the Librispeech corpus, the proposed TacoLM achieves a better word error rate, speaker similarity, and mean opinion score, with 90% fewer parameters and 5.2 times speed up, compared with VALL-E. Demo and code is available at https://ereboas.github.io/TacoLM/.

## An Attribute Interpolation Method in Speech Synthesis by Model Merging
- **Authors**: Masato Murata et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2407.00766](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.00766)
- **Tags**: synthesis
- **Abstract**: Text-to-speech (TTS) has been extensively studied for generating high-quality speech with textual inputs, playing a crucial role in various real-time applications. For real-world deployment, ensuring stable and timely generation in TTS models against minor input perturbations is of paramount importance. Therefore, evaluating the robustness of TTS models against such perturbations, commonly known as adversarial attacks, is highly desirable. In this paper, we propose TTSlow, a novel adversarial approach specifically tailored to slow down the speech generation process in TTS systems. To induce long TTS waiting time, we design novel efficiency-oriented adversarial loss to encourage endless generation process. TTSlow encompasses two attack strategies targeting both text inputs and speaker embedding. Specifically, we propose TTSlow-text, which utilizes a combination of homoglyphs-based and swap-based perturbations, along with TTSlow-spk, which employs a gradient optimization attack approach for speaker embedding. TTSlow serves as the first attack approach targeting a wide range of TTS models, including autoregressive and non-autoregressive TTS ones, thereby advancing exploration in audio security. Extensive experiments are conducted to evaluate the inference efficiency of TTS models, and in-depth analysis of generated speech intelligibility is performed using Gemini. The results demonstrate that TTSlow can effectively slow down two TTS models across three publicly available datasets. We are committed to releasing the source code upon acceptance, facilitating further research and benchmarking in this domain.

## FLY-TTS: Fast, Lightweight and High-Quality End-to-End Text-to-Speech Synthesis
- **Authors**: Yinlin Guo et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2407.00753](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.00753)
- **Tags**: streaming, synthesis
- **Abstract**: This paper introduces FLEURS-R, a speech restoration applied version of the Few-shot Learning Evaluation of Universal Representations of Speech (FLEURS) corpus. FLEURS-R maintains an N-way parallel speech corpus in 102 languages as FLEURS, with improved audio quality and fidelity by applying the speech restoration model Miipher. The aim of FLEURS-R is to advance speech technology in more languages and catalyze research including text-to-speech (TTS) and other speech generation tasks in low-resource languages. Comprehensive evaluations with the restored speech and TTS baseline models trained from the new corpus show that the new corpus obtained significantly improved speech quality while maintaining the semantic contents of the speech. The corpus is publicly released via Hugging Face.

