# TTS Papers - 2024-06-21

Total: 3

## InterBiasing: Boost Unseen Word Recognition through Biasing Intermediate Predictions
- **Authors**: Yu Nakagome et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2406.14890](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.14890)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: This paper describes NAIST's submission to the simultaneous track of the IWSLT 2024 Evaluation Campaign: English-to-{German, Japanese, Chinese} speech-to-text translation and English-to-Japanese speech-to-speech translation. We develop a multilingual end-to-end speech-to-text translation model combining two pre-trained language models, HuBERT and mBART. We trained this model with two decoding policies, Local Agreement (LA) and AlignAtt. The submitted models employ the LA policy because it outperformed the AlignAtt policy in previous models. Our speech-to-speech translation method is a cascade of the above speech-to-text model and an incremental text-to-speech (TTS) module that incorporates a phoneme estimation model, a parallel acoustic model, and a parallel WaveGAN vocoder. We improved our incremental TTS by applying the Transformer architecture with the AlignAtt policy for the estimation model. The results show that our upgraded TTS module contributed to improving the system performance.

## GLOBE: A High-quality English Corpus with Global Accents for Zero-shot Speaker Adaptive Text-to-Speech
- **Authors**: Wenbin Wang et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2406.14875](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.14875)
- **Tags**: zero-shot, synthesis
- **Abstract**: In this paper, we propose reverse inference optimization (RIO), a simple and effective method designed to enhance the robustness of autoregressive-model-based zero-shot text-to-speech (TTS) systems using reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF). To assess the quality of speech produced by the TTS system without human annotations, RIO introduces a novel concept termed as reverse inference based on the Bayesian principle, which suggests that a high-quality generated speech should be able to be used as a prompt for subsequent generation using the same TTS model. By leveraging reverse inference as the standard to select exemplars used in RLHF from the speech samples generated by the TTS system itself, RIO steers the subsequent optimization towards a direction of enhancing the TTS robustness. The RIO framework, comprising sampling, automatic annotating, and learning, obviates the need for a reward model or pairwise preference data, and significantly improves the stability of zero-shot TTS performance by reducing the discrepancies between training and inference conditions. Our experimental results verify that RIO can effectively improve both subjective and objective metrics, including mean opinion scores, word error rates, and speaker similarity. Remarkably, RIO can also diminish the incidence of bad outputs to nearly zero percent, rivalling the robustness when using ground-truth speech as the prompt.

## DASB - Discrete Audio and Speech Benchmark
- **Authors**: Pooneh Mousavi et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2406.14294](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.14294)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: With the help of discrete neural audio codecs, large language models (LLM) have increasingly been recognized as a promising methodology for zero-shot Text-to-Speech (TTS) synthesis. However, sampling based decoding strategies bring astonishing diversity to generation, but also pose robustness issues such as typos, omissions and repetition. In addition, the high sampling rate of audio also brings huge computational overhead to the inference process of autoregression. To address these issues, we propose VALL-E R, a robust and efficient zero-shot TTS system, building upon the foundation of VALL-E. Specifically, we introduce a phoneme monotonic alignment strategy to strengthen the connection between phonemes and acoustic sequence, ensuring a more precise alignment by constraining the acoustic tokens to match their associated phonemes. Furthermore, we employ a codec-merging approach to downsample the discrete codes in shallow quantization layer, thereby accelerating the decoding speed while preserving the high quality of speech output. Benefiting from these strategies, VALL-E R obtains controllablity over phonemes and demonstrates its strong robustness by approaching the WER of ground truth. In addition, it requires fewer autoregressive steps, with over 60% time reduction during inference. This research has the potential to be applied to meaningful projects, including the creation of speech for those affected by aphasia. Audio samples will be available at: https://aka.ms/valler.

