# TTS Papers - 2024-04-23

Total: 2

## StoryTTS: A Highly Expressive Text-to-Speech Dataset with Rich Textual Expressiveness Annotations
- **Authors**: Sen Liu et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2404.14946](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.14946)
- **Tags**: expressive, synthesis
- **Abstract**: The incorporation of Denoising Diffusion Models (DDMs) in the Text-to-Speech (TTS) domain is rising, providing great value in synthesizing high quality speech. Although they exhibit impressive audio quality, the extent of their semantic capabilities is unknown, and controlling their synthesized speech's vocal properties remains a challenge. Inspired by recent advances in image synthesis, we explore the latent space of frozen TTS models, which is composed of the latent bottleneck activations of the DDM's denoiser. We identify that this space contains rich semantic information, and outline several novel methods for finding semantic directions within it, both supervised and unsupervised. We then demonstrate how these enable off-the-shelf audio editing, without any further training, architectural changes or data requirements. We present evidence of the semantic and acoustic qualities of the edited audio, and provide supplemental samples: https://latent-analysis-grad-tts.github.io/speech-samples/.

## Retrieval-Augmented Audio Deepfake Detection
- **Authors**: Zuheng Kang et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2404.13892](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.13892)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: Recent popular decoder-only text-to-speech models are known for their ability of generating natural-sounding speech. However, such models sometimes suffer from word skipping and repeating due to the lack of explicit monotonic alignment constraints. In this paper, we notice from the attention maps that some particular attention heads of the decoder-only model indicate the alignments between speech and text. We call the attention maps of those heads Alignment-Emerged Attention Maps (AEAMs). Based on this discovery, we propose a novel inference method without altering the training process, named Attention-Constrained Inference (ACI), to facilitate monotonic synthesis. It first identifies AEAMs using the Attention Sweeping algorithm and then applies constraining masks on AEAMs. Our experimental results on decoder-only TTS model VALL-E show that the WER of synthesized speech is reduced by up to 20.5% relatively with ACI while the naturalness and speaker similarity are comparable.

