# TTS Papers - 2024-01-22

Total: 3

## Benchmarking Large Multimodal Models against Common Corruptions
- **Authors**: Jiawei Zhang et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2401.11943](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.11943)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: An overview is given of the DAVID Smart-Toy platform, one of the first Edge AI platform designs to incorporate advanced low-power data processing by neural inference models co-located with the relevant image or audio sensors. There is also on-board capability for in-device text-to-speech generation. Two alternative embodiments are presented: a smart Teddy-bear, and a roving dog-like robot. The platform offers a speech-driven user interface and can observe and interpret user actions and facial expressions via its computer vision sensor node. A particular benefit of this design is that no personally identifiable information passes beyond the neural inference nodes thus providing inbuilt compliance with data protection regulations.

## Adversarial speech for voice privacy protection from Personalized Speech generation
- **Authors**: Shihao Chen et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2401.11857](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.11857)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: Mindfulness-based therapies have been shown to be effective in improving mental health, and technology-based methods have the potential to expand the accessibility of these therapies. To enable real-time personalized content generation for mindfulness practice in these methods, high-quality computer-synthesized text-to-speech (TTS) voices are needed to provide verbal guidance and respond to user performance and preferences. However, the user-perceived quality of state-of-the-art TTS voices has not yet been evaluated for administering mindfulness meditation, which requires emotional expressiveness. In addition, work has not yet been done to study the effect of physical embodiment and personalization on the user-perceived quality of TTS voices for mindfulness. To that end, we designed a two-phase human subject study. In Phase 1, an online Mechanical Turk between-subject study (N=471) evaluated 3 (feminine, masculine, child-like) state-of-the-art TTS voices with 2 (feminine, masculine) human therapists' voices in 3 different physical embodiment settings (no agent, conversational agent, socially assistive robot) with remote participants. Building on findings from Phase 1, in Phase 2, an in-person within-subject study (N=94), we used a novel framework we developed for personalizing TTS voices based on user preferences, and evaluated user-perceived quality compared to best-rated non-personalized voices from Phase 1. We found that the best-rated human voice was perceived better than all TTS voices; the emotional expressiveness and naturalness of TTS voices were poorly rated, while users were satisfied with the clarity of TTS voices. Surprisingly, by allowing users to fine-tune TTS voice features, the user-personalized TTS voices could perform almost as well as human voices, suggesting user personalization could be a simple and very effective tool to improve user-perceived quality of TTS voice.

## Latent Filling: Latent Space Data Augmentation for Zero-shot Speech Synthesis
- **Authors**: Jae-Sung Bae et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2310.03538](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.03538)
- **Tags**: zero-shot, synthesis
- **Abstract**: Text-to-speech (TTS) methods have shown promising results in voice cloning, but they require a large number of labeled text-speech pairs. Minimally-supervised speech synthesis decouples TTS by combining two types of discrete speech representations(semantic \&amp; acoustic) and using two sequence-to-sequence tasks to enable training with minimal supervision. However, existing methods suffer from information redundancy and dimension explosion in semantic representation, and high-frequency waveform distortion in discrete acoustic representation. Autoregressive frameworks exhibit typical instability and uncontrollability issues. And non-autoregressive frameworks suffer from prosodic averaging caused by duration prediction models. To address these issues, we propose a minimally-supervised high-fidelity speech synthesis method, where all modules are constructed based on the diffusion models. The non-autoregressive framework enhances controllability, and the duration diffusion model enables diversified prosodic expression. Contrastive Token-Acoustic Pretraining (CTAP) is used as an intermediate semantic representation to solve the problems of information redundancy and dimension explosion in existing semantic coding methods. Mel-spectrogram is used as the acoustic representation. Both semantic and acoustic representations are predicted by continuous variable regression tasks to solve the problem of high-frequency fine-grained waveform distortion. Experimental results show that our proposed method outperforms the baseline method. We provide audio samples on our website.

