# TTS Papers - 2024-08-28

Total: 4

## Multi-modal Adversarial Training for Zero-Shot Voice Cloning
- **Authors**: John Janiczek et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2408.15916](https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.15916)
- **Tags**: zero-shot
- **Abstract**: The advancements in generative AI have enabled the improvement of audio synthesis models, including text-to-speech and voice conversion. This raises concerns about its potential misuse in social manipulation and political interference, as synthetic speech has become indistinguishable from natural human speech. Several speech-generation programs are utilized for malicious purposes, especially impersonating individuals through phone calls. Therefore, detecting fake audio is crucial to maintain social security and safeguard the integrity of information. Recent research has proposed a D-CAPTCHA system based on the challenge-response protocol to differentiate fake phone calls from real ones. In this work, we study the resilience of this system and introduce a more robust version, D-CAPTCHA++, to defend against fake calls. Specifically, we first expose the vulnerability of the D-CAPTCHA system under transferable imperceptible adversarial attack. Secondly, we mitigate such vulnerability by improving the robustness of the system by using adversarial training in D-CAPTCHA deepfake detectors and task classifiers.

## VoxInstruct: Expressive Human Instruction-to-Speech Generation with Unified Multilingual Codec Language Modelling
- **Authors**: Yixuan Zhou et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2408.15676](https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.15676)
- **Tags**: expressive, multilingual
- **Abstract**: Tokenising continuous speech into sequences of discrete tokens and modelling them with language models (LMs) has led to significant success in text-to-speech (TTS) synthesis. Although these models can generate speech with high quality and naturalness, their synthesised samples can still suffer from artefacts, mispronunciation, word repeating, etc. In this paper, we argue these undesirable properties could partly be caused by the randomness of sampling-based strategies during the autoregressive decoding of LMs. Therefore, we look at maximisation-based decoding approaches and propose Temporal Repetition Aware Diverse Beam Search (TRAD-BS) to find the most probable sequences of the generated speech tokens. Experiments with two state-of-the-art LM-based TTS models demonstrate that our proposed maximisation-based decoding strategy generates speech with fewer mispronunciations and improved speaker consistency.

## VoiceTailor: Lightweight Plug-In Adapter for Diffusion-Based Personalized Text-to-Speech
- **Authors**: Heeseung Kim et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2408.14739](https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.14739)
- **Tags**: synthesis
- **Abstract**: While universal vocoders have achieved proficient waveform generation across diverse voices, their integration into text-to-speech (TTS) tasks often results in degraded synthetic quality. To address this challenge, we present a novel augmentation technique for training universal vocoders. Our training scheme randomly applies linear smoothing filters to input acoustic features, facilitating vocoder generalization across a wide range of smoothings. It significantly mitigates the training-inference mismatch, enhancing the naturalness of synthetic output even when the acoustic model produces overly smoothed features. Notably, our method is applicable to any vocoder without requiring architectural modifications or dependencies on specific acoustic models. The experimental results validate the superiority of our vocoder over conventional methods, achieving 11.99% and 12.05% improvements in mean opinion scores when integrated with Tacotron 2 and FastSpeech 2 TTS acoustic models, respectively.

## SimpleSpeech 2: Towards Simple and Efficient Text-to-Speech with Flow-based Scalar Latent Transformer Diffusion Models
- **Authors**: Dongchao Yang et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2408.13893](https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.13893)
- **Tags**: llm-based, synthesis
- **Abstract**: Extensive research has revealed that adversarial examples (AE) pose a significant threat to voice-controllable smart devices. Recent studies have proposed black-box adversarial attacks that require only the final transcription from an automatic speech recognition (ASR) system. However, these attacks typically involve many queries to the ASR, resulting in substantial costs. Moreover, AE-based adversarial audio samples are susceptible to ASR updates. In this paper, we identify the root cause of these limitations, namely the inability to construct AE attack samples directly around the decision boundary of deep learning (DL) models. Building on this observation, we propose ALIF, the first black-box adversarial linguistic feature-based attack pipeline. We leverage the reciprocal process of text-to-speech (TTS) and ASR models to generate perturbations in the linguistic embedding space where the decision boundary resides. Based on the ALIF pipeline, we present the ALIF-OTL and ALIF-OTA schemes for launching attacks in both the digital domain and the physical playback environment on four commercial ASRs and voice assistants. Extensive evaluations demonstrate that ALIF-OTL and -OTA significantly improve query efficiency by 97.7% and 73.3%, respectively, while achieving competitive performance compared to existing methods. Notably, ALIF-OTL can generate an attack sample with only one query. Furthermore, our test-of-time experiment validates the robustness of our approach against ASR updates.

