# TTS Papers - 2024-10-18

Total: 2

## A Unified Framework for Collecting Text-to-Speech Synthesis Datasets for 22 Indian Languages
- **Authors**: Sujitha Sathiyamoorthy et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2410.14197](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.14197)
- **Tags**: multilingual, synthesis
- **Abstract**: Generative artificial intelligence (GenAI) can reshape education and learning. While large language models (LLMs) like ChatGPT dominate current educational research, multimodal capabilities, such as text-to-speech and text-to-image, are less explored. This study uses topic modeling to map the research landscape of multimodal and generative AI in education. An extensive literature search using Dimensions yielded 4175 articles. Employing a topic modeling approach, latent topics were extracted, resulting in 38 interpretable topics organized into 14 thematic areas. Findings indicate a predominant focus on text-to-text models in educational contexts, with other modalities underexplored, overlooking the broader potential of multimodal approaches. The results suggest a research gap, stressing the importance of more balanced attention across different AI modalities and educational levels. In summary, this research provides an overview of current trends in generative AI for education, underlining opportunities for future exploration of multimodal technologies to fully realize the transformative potential of artificial intelligence in education.

## Multi-Source Spatial Knowledge Understanding for Immersive Visual Text-to-Speech
- **Authors**: Shuwei He et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2410.14101](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.14101)
- **Tags**: synthesis
- **Abstract**: Data-rich documents are commonly found across various fields such as business, finance, and science. However, a general limitation of these documents for reading is their reliance on text to convey data and facts. Visual representation of text aids in providing a satisfactory reading experience in comprehension and engagement. However, existing work emphasizes presenting the insights of local text context, rather than fully conveying data stories within the whole paragraphs and engaging readers. To provide readers with satisfactory data stories, this paper presents Narrative Player, a novel method that automatically revives data narratives with consistent and contextualized visuals. Specifically, it accepts a paragraph and corresponding data table as input and leverages LLMs to characterize the clauses and extract contextualized data facts. Subsequently, the facts are transformed into a coherent visualization sequence with a carefully designed optimization-based approach. Animations are also assigned between adjacent visualizations to enable seamless transitions. Finally, the visualization sequence, transition animations, and audio narration generated by text-to-speech technologies are rendered into a data video. The evaluation results showed that the automatic-generated data videos were well-received by participants and experts for enhancing reading.

