# TTS Papers - 2024-04-18

Total: 2

## Llama-VITS: Enhancing TTS Synthesis with Semantic Awareness
- **Authors**: Xincan Feng et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2404.06714](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.06714)
- **Tags**: synthesis
- **Abstract**: Contemporary conversational systems often present a significant limitation: their responses lack the emotional depth and disfluent characteristic of human interactions. This absence becomes particularly noticeable when users seek more personalized and empathetic interactions. Consequently, this makes them seem mechanical and less relatable to human users. Recognizing this gap, we embarked on a journey to humanize machine communication, to ensure AI systems not only comprehend but also resonate. To address this shortcoming, we have designed an innovative speech synthesis pipeline. Within this framework, a cutting-edge language model introduces both human-like emotion and disfluencies in a zero-shot setting. These intricacies are seamlessly integrated into the generated text by the language model during text generation, allowing the system to mirror human speech patterns better, promoting more intuitive and natural user interactions. These generated elements are then adeptly transformed into corresponding speech patterns and emotive sounds using a rule-based approach during the text-to-speech phase. Based on our experiments, our novel system produces synthesized speech that's almost indistinguishable from genuine human communication, making each interaction feel more personal and authentic.

## Open vocabulary keyword spotting through transfer learning from speech synthesis
- **Authors**: Kesavaraj V et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2404.03914](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.03914)
- **Tags**: synthesis
- **Abstract**: In text-to-speech synthesis, the ability to control voice characteristics is vital for various applications. By leveraging thriving text prompt-based generation techniques, it should be possible to enhance the nuanced control of voice characteristics. While previous research has explored the prompt-based manipulation of voice characteristics, most studies have used pre-recorded speech, which limits the diversity of voice characteristics available. Thus, we aim to address this gap by creating a novel corpus and developing a model for prompt-based manipulation of voice characteristics in text-to-speech synthesis, facilitating a broader range of voice characteristics. Specifically, we propose a method to build a sizable corpus pairing voice characteristics descriptions with corresponding speech samples. This involves automatically gathering voice-related speech data from the Internet, ensuring its quality, and manually annotating it using crowdsourcing. We implement this method with Japanese language data and analyze the results to validate its effectiveness. Subsequently, we propose a construction method of the model to retrieve speech from voice characteristics descriptions based on a contrastive learning method. We train the model using not only conservative contrastive learning but also feature prediction learning to predict quantitative speech features corresponding to voice characteristics. We evaluate the model performance via experiments with the corpus we constructed above.

