# TTS Papers - 2024-01-09

Total: 2

## Unified speech and gesture synthesis using flow matching
- **Authors**: Shivam Mehta et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2310.05181](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.05181)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: With the rapid development of artificial intelligence (AI), digital humans have attracted more and more attention and are expected to achieve a wide range of applications in several industries. Then, most of the existing digital humans still rely on manual modeling by designers, which is a cumbersome process and has a long development cycle. Therefore, facing the rise of digital humans, there is an urgent need for a digital human generation system combined with AI to improve development efficiency. In this paper, an implementation scheme of an intelligent digital human generation system with multimodal fusion is proposed. Specifically, text, speech and image are taken as inputs, and interactive speech is synthesized using large language model (LLM), voiceprint extraction, and text-to-speech conversion techniques. Then the input image is age-transformed and a suitable image is selected as the driving image. Then, the modification and generation of digital human video content is realized by digital human driving, novel view synthesis, and intelligent dressing techniques. Finally, we enhance the user experience through style transfer, super-resolution, and quality evaluation. Experimental results show that the system can effectively realize digital human generation. The related code is released at https://github.com/zyj-2000/CUMT_2D_PhotoSpeaker.

## BiSinger: Bilingual Singing Voice Synthesis
- **Authors**: Huali Zhou et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2309.14089](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.14089)
- **Tags**: synthesis
- **Abstract**: In text-to-speech, controlling voice characteristics is important in achieving various-purpose speech synthesis. Considering the success of text-conditioned generation, such as text-to-image, free-form text instruction should be useful for intuitive and complicated control of voice characteristics. A sufficiently large corpus of high-quality and diverse voice samples with corresponding free-form descriptions can advance such control research. However, neither an open corpus nor a scalable method is currently available. To this end, we develop Coco-Nut, a new corpus including diverse Japanese utterances, along with text transcriptions and free-form voice characteristics descriptions. Our methodology to construct this corpus consists of 1) automatic collection of voice-related audio data from the Internet, 2) quality assurance, and 3) manual annotation using crowdsourcing. Additionally, we benchmark our corpus on the prompt embedding model trained by contrastive speech-text learning.

