# TTS Papers - 2024-10-14

Total: 2

## IsoChronoMeter: A simple and effective isochronic translation evaluation metric
- **Authors**: Nikolai Rozanov et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2410.11127](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.11127)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: Existing zero-shot text-to-speech (TTS) systems are typically designed to process complete sentences and are constrained by the maximum duration for which they have been trained. However, in many streaming applications, texts arrive continuously in short chunks, necessitating instant responses from the system. We identify the essential capabilities required for chunk-level streaming and introduce LiveSpeech 2, a stream-aware model that supports infinitely long speech generation, text-audio stream synchronization, and seamless transitions between short speech chunks. To achieve these, we propose (1) adopting Mamba, a class of sequence modeling distinguished by linear-time decoding, which is augmented by cross-attention mechanisms for conditioning, (2) utilizing rotary positional embeddings in the computation of cross-attention, enabling the model to process an infinite text stream by sliding a window, and (3) decoding with semantic guidance, a technique that aligns speech with the transcript during inference with minimal overhead. Experimental results demonstrate that our models are competitive with state-of-the-art language model-based zero-shot TTS models, while also providing flexibility to support a wide range of streaming scenarios.

## DMDSpeech: Distilled Diffusion Model Surpassing The Teacher in Zero-shot Speech Synthesis via Direct Metric Optimization
- **Authors**: Yingahao Aaron Li et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2410.11097](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.11097)
- **Tags**: zero-shot, synthesis
- **Abstract**: The fusion of speech and language in the era of large language models has garnered significant attention. Discrete speech token is often utilized in text-to-speech tasks for speech compression and portability, which is convenient for joint training with text and have good compression efficiency. However, we found that the discrete speech tokenizer still suffers from information loss. Therefore, we propose a simple yet effective continuous speech tokenizer named Cont-SPT, and a text-to-speech model based on continuous speech tokens. Our results show that the speech language model based on the continuous speech tokenizer has better continuity and higher estimated Mean Opinion Scores (MoS). This enhancement is attributed to better information preservation rate of the continuous speech tokenizer across both low and high frequencies in the frequency domain. The code and resources for Cont-SPT can be found in https://github.com/Yixing-Li/Continuous-Speech-Tokenizer

