# TTS Papers - 2024-03-31

Total: 2

## Humane Speech Synthesis through Zero-Shot Emotion and Disfluency Generation
- **Authors**: Rohan Chaudhury et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2404.01339](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.01339)
- **Tags**: zero-shot, expressive, synthesis
- **Abstract**: Neural Text-to-Speech (TTS) systems find broad applications in voice assistants, e-learning, and audiobook creation. The pursuit of modern models, like Diffusion Models (DMs), holds promise for achieving high-fidelity, real-time speech synthesis. Yet, the efficiency of multi-step sampling in Diffusion Models presents challenges. Efforts have been made to integrate GANs with DMs, speeding up inference by approximating denoising distributions, but this introduces issues with model convergence due to adversarial training. To overcome this, we introduce CM-TTS, a novel architecture grounded in consistency models (CMs). Drawing inspiration from continuous-time diffusion models, CM-TTS achieves top-quality speech synthesis in fewer steps without adversarial training or pre-trained model dependencies. We further design weighted samplers to incorporate different sampling positions into model training with dynamic probabilities, ensuring unbiased learning throughout the entire training process. We present a real-time mel-spectrogram generation consistency model, validated through comprehensive evaluations. Experimental results underscore CM-TTS's superiority over existing single-step speech synthesis systems, representing a significant advancement in the field.

## CM-TTS: Enhancing Real Time Text-to-Speech Synthesis Efficiency through Weighted Samplers and Consistency Models
- **Authors**: Xiang Li et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2404.00569](https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.00569)
- **Tags**: synthesis
- **Abstract**: Voice faking, driven primarily by recent advances in text-to-speech (TTS) synthesis technology, poses significant societal challenges. Currently, the prevailing assumption is that unaltered human speech can be considered genuine, while fake speech comes from TTS synthesis. We argue that this binary distinction is oversimplified. For instance, altered playback speeds can be used for malicious purposes, like in the 'Drunken Nancy Pelosi' incident. Similarly, editing of audio clips can be done ethically, e.g., for brevity or summarization in news reporting or podcasts, but editing can also create misleading narratives. In this paper, we propose a conceptual shift away from the binary paradigm of audio being either 'fake' or 'real'. Instead, our focus is on pinpointing 'voice edits', which encompass traditional modifications like filters and cuts, as well as TTS synthesis and VC systems. We delineate 6 categories and curate a new challenge dataset rooted in the M-AILABS corpus, for which we present baseline detection systems. And most importantly, we argue that merely categorizing audio as fake or real is a dangerous over-simplification that will fail to move the field of speech technology forward.

