# TTS Papers - 2024-09-10

Total: 5

## Enhancing Emotional Text-to-Speech Controllability with Natural Language Guidance through Contrastive Learning and Diffusion Models
- **Authors**: Xin Jing et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2409.06451](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.06451)
- **Tags**: expressive, multilingual, synthesis
- **Abstract**: Recent speech technologies have led to produce high quality synthesised speech due to recent advances in neural Text to Speech (TTS). However, such TTS models depend on extensive amounts of data that can be costly to produce and is hardly scalable to all existing languages, especially that seldom attention is given to low resource languages. With techniques such as knowledge transfer, the burden of creating datasets can be alleviated. In this paper, we therefore investigate two aspects; firstly, whether data from social media can be used for a small TTS dataset construction, and secondly whether cross lingual transfer learning (TL) for a low resource language can work with this type of data. In this aspect, we specifically assess to what extent multilingual modeling can be leveraged as an alternative to training on monolingual corporas. To do so, we explore how data from foreign languages may be selected and pooled to train a TTS model for a target low resource language. Our findings show that multilingual pre-training is better than monolingual pre-training at increasing the intelligibility and naturalness of the generated speech.

## What happens to diffusion model likelihood when your model is conditional?
- **Authors**: Mattias Cross et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2409.06364](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.06364)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: The proliferation of mobile applications (apps) has made it crucial to ensure their accessibility for users with disabilities. However, there is a lack of research on the real-world challenges developers face in implementing mobile accessibility features. This study presents a large-scale empirical analysis of accessibility discussions on Stack Overflow to identify the trends and challenges Android and iOS developers face. We examine the growth patterns, characteristics, and common topics mobile developers discuss. Our results show several challenges, including integrating assistive technologies like screen readers, ensuring accessible UI design, supporting text-to-speech across languages, handling complex gestures, and conducting accessibility testing. We envision our findings driving improvements in developer practices, research directions, tool support, and educational resources.

## VoiceWukong: Benchmarking Deepfake Voice Detection
- **Authors**: Ziwei Yan et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2409.06348](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.06348)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: Diffusion Models (DMs) iteratively denoise random samples to produce high-quality data. The iterative sampling process is derived from Stochastic Differential Equations (SDEs), allowing a speed-quality trade-off chosen at inference. Another advantage of sampling with differential equations is exact likelihood computation. These likelihoods have been used to rank unconditional DMs and for out-of-domain classification. Despite the many existing and possible uses of DM likelihoods, the distinct properties captured are unknown, especially in conditional contexts such as Text-To-Image (TTI) or Text-To-Speech synthesis (TTS). Surprisingly, we find that TTS DM likelihoods are agnostic to the text input. TTI likelihood is more expressive but cannot discern confounding prompts. Our results show that applying DMs to conditional tasks reveals inconsistencies and strengthens claims that the properties of DM likelihood are unknown. This impact sheds light on the previously unknown nature of DM likelihoods. Although conditional DMs maximise likelihood, the likelihood in question is not as sensitive to the conditioning input as one expects. This investigation provides a new point-of-view on diffusion likelihoods.

## Disentangling the Prosody and Semantic Information with Pre-trained Model for In-Context Learning based Zero-Shot Voice Conversion
- **Authors**: Zhengyang Chen et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2409.05004](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.05004)
- **Tags**: zero-shot, expressive
- **Abstract**: In recent years, there has been significant progress in Text-to-Speech (TTS) synthesis technology, enabling the high-quality synthesis of voices in common scenarios. In unseen situations, adaptive TTS requires a strong generalization capability to speaker style characteristics. However, the existing adaptive methods can only extract and integrate coarse-grained timbre or mixed rhythm attributes separately. In this paper, we propose AS-Speech, an adaptive style methodology that integrates the speaker timbre characteristics and rhythmic attributes into a unified framework for text-to-speech synthesis. Specifically, AS-Speech can accurately simulate style characteristics through fine-grained text-based timbre features and global rhythm information, and achieve high-fidelity speech synthesis through the diffusion model. Experiments show that the proposed model produces voices with higher naturalness and similarity in terms of timbre and rhythm compared to a series of adaptive TTS models.

## LAST: Language Model Aware Speech Tokenization
- **Authors**: Arnon Turetzky et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2409.03701](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.03701)
- **Tags**: multilingual
- **Abstract**: With the rapid advancement of technologies like text-to-speech (TTS) and voice conversion (VC), detecting deepfake voices has become increasingly crucial. However, both academia and industry lack a comprehensive and intuitive benchmark for evaluating detectors. Existing datasets are limited in language diversity and lack many manipulations encountered in real-world production environments. To fill this gap, we propose VoiceWukong, a benchmark designed to evaluate the performance of deepfake voice detectors. To build the dataset, we first collected deepfake voices generated by 19 advanced and widely recognized commercial tools and 15 open-source tools. We then created 38 data variants covering six types of manipulations, constructing the evaluation dataset for deepfake voice detection. VoiceWukong thus includes 265,200 English and 148,200 Chinese deepfake voice samples. Using VoiceWukong, we evaluated 12 state-of-the-art detectors. AASIST2 achieved the best equal error rate (EER) of 13.50%, while all others exceeded 20%. Our findings reveal that these detectors face significant challenges in real-world applications, with dramatically declining performance. In addition, we conducted a user study with more than 300 participants. The results are compared with the performance of the 12 detectors and a multimodel large language model (MLLM), i.e., Qwen2-Audio, where different detectors and humans exhibit varying identification capabilities for deepfake voices at different deception levels, while the LALM demonstrates no detection ability at all. Furthermore, we provide a leaderboard for deepfake voice detection, publicly available at {https://voicewukong.github.io}.

