# TTS Papers - 2024-02-19

Total: 2

## On the Semantic Latent Space of Diffusion-Based Text-to-Speech Models
- **Authors**: Miri Varshavsky-Hassid et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2402.12423](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.12423)
- **Tags**: synthesis
- **Abstract**: We often verbally express emotions in a multifaceted manner, they may vary in their intensities and may be expressed not just as a single but as a mixture of emotions. This wide spectrum of emotions is well-studied in the structural model of emotions, which represents variety of emotions as derivative products of primary emotions with varying degrees of intensity. In this paper, we propose an emotional text-to-speech design to simulate a wider spectrum of emotions grounded on the structural model. Our proposed design, Daisy-TTS, incorporates a prosody encoder to learn emotionally-separable prosody embedding as a proxy for emotion. This emotion representation allows the model to simulate: (1) Primary emotions, as learned from the training samples, (2) Secondary emotions, as a mixture of primary emotions, (3) Intensity-level, by scaling the emotion embedding, and (4) Emotions polarity, by negating the emotion embedding. Through a series of perceptual evaluations, Daisy-TTS demonstrated overall higher emotional speech naturalness and emotion perceiveability compared to the baseline.

## Bayesian Parameter-Efficient Fine-Tuning for Overcoming Catastrophic Forgetting
- **Authors**: Haolin Chen et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2402.12220](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.12220)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: Neural speech codecs have recently emerged as a focal point in the fields of speech compression and generation. Despite this progress, achieving high-quality speech reconstruction under low-bitrate scenarios remains a significant challenge. In this paper, we propose PSCodec, a series of neural speech codecs based on prompt encoders, comprising PSCodec-Base, PSCodec-DRL-ICT, and PSCodec-CasAN, which are capable of delivering high-performance speech reconstruction with low bandwidths. Specifically, we first introduce PSCodec-Base, which leverages a pretrained speaker verification model-based prompt encoder (VPP-Enc) and a learnable Mel-spectrogram-based prompt encoder (MelP-Enc) to effectively disentangle and integrate voiceprint and Mel-related features in utterances. To further enhance feature utilization efficiency, we propose PSCodec-DRL-ICT, incorporating a structural similarity (SSIM) based disentangled representation loss (DRL) and an incremental continuous training (ICT) strategy. While PSCodec-DRL-ICT demonstrates impressive performance, its reliance on extensive hyperparameter tuning and multi-stage training makes it somewhat labor-intensive. To circumvent these limitations, we propose PSCodec-CasAN, utilizing an advanced cascaded attention network (CasAN) to enhance representational capacity of the entire system. Extensive experiments show that our proposed PSCodec-Base, PSCodec-DRL-ICT, and PSCodec-CasAN all significantly outperform several state-of-the-art neural codecs, exhibiting substantial improvements in both speech reconstruction quality and speaker similarity under low-bitrate conditions.

