# TTS Papers - 2024-09-14

Total: 4

## E1 TTS: Simple and Fast Non-Autoregressive TTS
- **Authors**: Zhijun Liu et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2409.09351](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.09351)
- **Tags**: streaming, synthesis
- **Abstract**: In recent years, speech generation technology has advanced rapidly, fueled by generative models and large-scale training techniques. While these developments have enabled the production of high-quality synthetic speech, they have also raised concerns about the misuse of this technology, particularly for generating synthetic misinformation. Current research primarily focuses on distinguishing machine-generated speech from human-produced speech, but the more urgent challenge is detecting misinformation within spoken content. This task requires a thorough analysis of factors such as speaker identity, topic, and synthesis. To address this need, we conduct an initial investigation into synthetic spoken misinformation detection by introducing an open-source dataset, SpMis. SpMis includes speech synthesized from over 1,000 speakers across five common topics, utilizing state-of-the-art text-to-speech systems. Although our results show promising detection capabilities, they also reveal substantial challenges for practical implementation, underscoring the importance of ongoing research in this critical area.

## Improving Robustness of Diffusion-Based Zero-Shot Speech Synthesis via Stable Formant Generation
- **Authors**: Changjin Han et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2409.09311](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.09311)
- **Tags**: zero-shot, synthesis
- **Abstract**: This work proposes FireRedTTS, a foundation text-to-speech framework, to meet the growing demands for personalized and diverse generative speech applications. The framework comprises three parts: data processing, foundation system, and downstream applications. First, we comprehensively present our data processing pipeline, which transforms massive raw audio into a large-scale high-quality TTS dataset with rich annotations and a wide coverage of content, speaking style, and timbre. Then, we propose a language-model-based foundation TTS system. The speech signal is compressed into discrete semantic tokens via a semantic-aware speech tokenizer, and can be generated by a language model from the prompt text and audio. Then, a two-stage waveform generator is proposed to decode them to the high-fidelity waveform. We present two applications of this system: voice cloning for dubbing and human-like speech generation for chatbots. The experimental results demonstrate the solid in-context learning capability of FireRedTTS, which can stably synthesize high-quality speech consistent with the prompt text and audio. For dubbing, FireRedTTS can clone target voices in a zero-shot way for the UGC scenario and adapt to studio-level expressive voice characters in the PUGC scenario via few-shot fine-tuning with 1-hour recording. Moreover, FireRedTTS achieves controllable human-like speech generation in a casual style with paralinguistic behaviors and emotions via instruction tuning, to better serve spoken chatbots.

## SafeEar: Content Privacy-Preserving Audio Deepfake Detection
- **Authors**: Xinfeng Li et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2409.09272](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.09272)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: We explore cross-dialect text-to-speech (CD-TTS), a task to synthesize learned speakers' voices in non-native dialects, especially in pitch-accent languages. CD-TTS is important for developing voice agents that naturally communicate with people across regions. We present a novel TTS model comprising three sub-modules to perform competitively at this task. We first train a backbone TTS model to synthesize dialect speech from a text conditioned on phoneme-level accent latent variables (ALVs) extracted from speech by a reference encoder. Then, we train an ALV predictor to predict ALVs tailored to a target dialect from input text leveraging our novel multi-dialect phoneme-level BERT. We conduct multi-dialect TTS experiments and evaluate the effectiveness of our model by comparing it with a baseline derived from conventional dialect TTS methods. The results show that our model improves the dialectal naturalness of synthetic speech in CD-TTS.

## Exploring Accessibility Trends and Challenges in Mobile App Development: A Study of Stack Overflow Questions
- **Authors**: Amila Indika et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2409.07945](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.07945)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: Automatic Speaker Verification (ASV) systems, which identify speakers based on their voice characteristics, have numerous applications, such as user authentication in financial transactions, exclusive access control in smart devices, and forensic fraud detection. However, the advancement of deep learning algorithms has enabled the generation of synthetic audio through Text-to-Speech (TTS) and Voice Conversion (VC) systems, exposing ASV systems to potential vulnerabilities. To counteract this, we propose a novel architecture named AASIST3. By enhancing the existing AASIST framework with Kolmogorov-Arnold networks, additional layers, encoders, and pre-emphasis techniques, AASIST3 achieves a more than twofold improvement in performance. It demonstrates minDCF results of 0.5357 in the closed condition and 0.1414 in the open condition, significantly enhancing the detection of synthetic voices and improving ASV security.

