# TTS Papers - 2024-09-19

Total: 3

## Enhancing Synthetic Training Data for Speech Commands: From ASR-Based Filtering to Domain Adaptation in SSL Latent Space
- **Authors**: Sebastião Quintas et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2409.12745](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.12745)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: Text-to-Speech (TTS) and Voice Conversion (VC) models have exhibited remarkable performance in generating realistic and natural audio. However, their dark side, audio deepfake poses a significant threat to both society and individuals. Existing countermeasures largely focus on determining the genuineness of speech based on complete original audio recordings, which however often contain private content. This oversight may refrain deepfake detection from many applications, particularly in scenarios involving sensitive information like business secrets. In this paper, we propose SafeEar, a novel framework that aims to detect deepfake audios without relying on accessing the speech content within. Our key idea is to devise a neural audio codec into a novel decoupling model that well separates the semantic and acoustic information from audio samples, and only use the acoustic information (e.g., prosody and timbre) for deepfake detection. In this way, no semantic content will be exposed to the detector. To overcome the challenge of identifying diverse deepfake audio without semantic clues, we enhance our deepfake detector with real-world codec augmentation. Extensive experiments conducted on four benchmark datasets demonstrate SafeEar's effectiveness in detecting various deepfake techniques with an equal error rate (EER) down to 2.02%. Simultaneously, it shields five-language speech content from being deciphered by both machine and human auditory analysis, demonstrated by word error rates (WERs) all above 93.93% and our user study. Furthermore, our benchmark constructed for anti-deepfake and anti-content recovery evaluation helps provide a basis for future research in the realms of audio privacy preservation and deepfake detection.

## Preference Alignment Improves Language Model-Based TTS
- **Authors**: Jinchuan Tian et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2409.12403](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.12403)
- **Tags**: multilingual, synthesis
- **Abstract**: A text-to-speech (TTS) model trained to reconstruct speech given text tends towards predictions that are close to the average characteristics of a dataset, failing to model the variations that make human speech sound natural. This problem is magnified for zero-shot voice cloning, a task that requires training data with high variance in speaking styles. We build off of recent works which have used Generative Advsarial Networks (GAN) by proposing a Transformer encoder-decoder architecture to conditionally discriminates between real and generated speech features. The discriminator is used in a training pipeline that improves both the acoustic and prosodic features of a TTS model. We introduce our novel adversarial training technique by applying it to a FastSpeech2 acoustic model and training on Libriheavy, a large multi-speaker dataset, for the task of zero-shot voice cloning. Our model achieves improvements over the baseline in terms of speech quality and speaker similarity. Audio examples from our system are available online.

## The Art of Storytelling: Multi-Agent Generative AI for Dynamic Multimodal Narratives
- **Authors**: Samee Arif et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2409.11261](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.11261)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: The long speech sequence has been troubling language models (LM) based TTS approaches in terms of modeling complexity and efficiency. This work proposes SoCodec, a semantic-ordered multi-stream speech codec, to address this issue. It compresses speech into a shorter, multi-stream discrete semantic sequence with multiple tokens at each frame. Meanwhile, the ordered product quantization is proposed to constrain this sequence into an ordered representation. It can be applied with a multi-stream delayed LM to achieve better autoregressive generation along both time and stream axes in TTS. The experimental result strongly demonstrates the effectiveness of the proposed approach, achieving superior performance over baseline systems even if compressing the frameshift of speech from 20ms to 240ms (12x). The ablation studies further validate the importance of learning the proposed ordered multi-stream semantic representation in pursuing shorter speech sequences for efficient LM-based TTS.

