# TTS Papers - 2024-01-11

Total: 2

## End to end Hindi to English speech conversion using Bark, mBART and a finetuned XLSR Wav2Vec2
- **Authors**: Aniket Tathe et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2401.06183](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.06183)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: We present MunTTS, an end-to-end text-to-speech (TTS) system specifically for Mundari, a low-resource Indian language of the Austo-Asiatic family. Our work addresses the gap in linguistic technology for underrepresented languages by collecting and processing data to build a speech synthesis system. We begin our study by gathering a substantial dataset of Mundari text and speech and train end-to-end speech models. We also delve into the methods used for training our models, ensuring they are efficient and effective despite the data constraints. We evaluate our system with native speakers and objective metrics, demonstrating its potential as a tool for preserving and promoting the Mundari language in the digital age.

## Self-Attention and Hybrid Features for Replay and Deep-Fake Audio Detection
- **Authors**: Lian Huang et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2401.05614](https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.05614)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: Text Normalization is an integral part of any text-to-speech synthesis system. In a natural language text, there are elements such as numbers, dates, abbreviations, etc. that belong to other semiotic classes. They are called non-standard words (NSW) and need to be expanded into ordinary words. For this purpose, it is necessary to identify the semiotic class of each NSW. The taxonomy of semiotic classes adapted to the Lithuanian language is presented in the work. Sets of rules are created for detecting and expanding NSWs based on regular expressions. Experiments with three completely different data sets were performed and the accuracy was assessed. Causes of errors are explained and recommendations are given for the development of text normalization rules.

