# TTS Papers - 2025-07-29

Total: 2

## SpeechFake: A Large-Scale Multilingual Speech Deepfake Dataset Incorporating Cutting-Edge Generation Methods
- **Authors**: Wen Huang et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2507.21463](https://arxiv.org/abs/2507.21463)
- **Tags**: multilingual
- **Abstract**: Dysarthric speech poses significant challenges in developing assistive technologies, primarily due to the limited availability of data. Recent advances in neural speech synthesis, especially zero-shot voice cloning, facilitate synthetic speech generation for data augmentation; however, they may introduce biases towards dysarthric speech. In this paper, we investigate the effectiveness of state-of-the-art F5-TTS in cloning dysarthric speech using TORGO dataset, focusing on intelligibility, speaker similarity, and prosody preservation. We also analyze potential biases using fairness metrics like Disparate Impact and Parity Difference to assess disparities across dysarthric severity levels. Results show that F5-TTS exhibits a strong bias toward speech intelligibility over speaker and prosody preservation in dysarthric speech synthesis. Insights from this study can help integrate fairness-aware dysarthric speech synthesis, fostering the advancement of more inclusive speech technologies.

## JWB-DH-V1: Benchmark for Joint Whole-Body Talking Avatar and Speech Generation Version 1
- **Authors**: Xinhan Di et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2507.20987](https://arxiv.org/abs/2507.20987)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: Simultaneous Interpretation (SI) represents one of the most daunting frontiers in the translation industry, with product-level automatic systems long plagued by intractable challenges: subpar transcription and translation quality, lack of real-time speech generation, multi-speaker confusion, and translated speech inflation, especially in long-form discourses. In this study, we introduce Seed-LiveInterpret 2.0, an end-to-end SI model that delivers high-fidelity, ultra-low-latency speech-to-speech generation with voice cloning capabilities. As a fully operational product-level solution, Seed-LiveInterpret 2.0 tackles these challenges head-on through our novel duplex speech-to-speech understanding-generating framework. Experimental results demonstrate that through large-scale pretraining and reinforcement learning, the model achieves a significantly better balance between translation accuracy and latency, validated by human interpreters to exceed 70% correctness in complex scenarios. Notably, Seed-LiveInterpret 2.0 outperforms commercial SI solutions by significant margins in translation quality, while slashing the average latency of cloned speech from nearly 10 seconds to a near-real-time 3 seconds, which is around a near 70% reduction that drastically enhances practical usability.

