# TTS Papers - 2025-03-19

Total: 2

## Shushing! Let's Imagine an Authentic Speech from the Silent Video
- **Authors**: Jiaxin Ye et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2503.14928](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.14928)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: Machine learning techniques have conquered many different tasks in speech and natural language processing, such as speech recognition, information extraction, text and speech generation, and human machine interaction using natural language or speech (chatbots). Modern techniques typically rely on large models for representing general knowledge of one or several languages (Large Language Models, LLMs), or for representing speech and general audio characteristics. These models have been trained with large amounts of speech and language data, typically including web content. When humans interact with such technologies, the effectiveness of the interaction will be influenced by how far humans make use of the same type of language the models have been trained on or, in other words, if the models are able to generalize to the language used by humans when interacting with the technology. This may lead to some gradual forms of adaptation in human speech and language production, and users who do not adapt may be excluded from efficient use of such technologies. On top of this, as commercial model development follows market needs, under-represented languages and dialects/sociolects may decrease in terms of priorities. Furthermore, for many lesser spoken languages the necessary data is not available, which will worsen a digital divide in speech and language technology usage. The workshop sets out to discuss this problem based on scientific contributions from the perspective of computer science and linguistics (including computational linguistics and NLP).

## MoonCast: High-Quality Zero-Shot Podcast Generation
- **Authors**: Zeqian Ju et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2503.14345](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.14345)
- **Tags**: zero-shot
- **Abstract**: In this work, we upgrade FireRedTTS to a new version, FireRedTTS-1S, a high-quality streaming foundation text-to-speech system. FireRedTTS-1S achieves streaming speech generation via two steps: text-to-semantic decoding and semantic-to-acoustic decoding. In text-to-semantic decoding, a semantic-aware speech tokenizer converts the speech signal into semantic tokens, which can be synthesized from the text via a language model in an auto-regressive manner. Meanwhile, the semantic-to-acoustic decoding module simultaneously translates generated semantic tokens into the speech signal in a streaming way. We implement two approaches to achieve this module: 1) a chunk-wise streamable flow-matching approach, and 2) a multi-stream language model-based approach. They both present high-quality and streamable speech generation but differ in real-time factor (RTF) and latency. Specifically, flow-matching decoding can generate speech by chunks, presenting a lower RTF of 0.1 but a higher latency of 300ms. Instead, the multi-stream language model generates speech by frames in an autoregressive manner, presenting a higher RTF of 0.3 but a low latency of 150ms. In experiments on zero-shot voice cloning, the objective results validate FireRedTTS-1S as a high-quality foundation model with comparable intelligibility and speaker similarity over industrial baseline systems. Furthermore, the subjective score of FireRedTTS-1S highlights its impressive synthesis performance, achieving comparable quality to the ground-truth recordings. These results validate FireRedTTS-1S as a high-quality streaming foundation TTS system.

