# TTS Papers - 2025-09-06

Total: 1

## LatinX: Aligning a Multilingual TTS Model with Direct Preference Optimization
- **Authors**: Luis Felipe Chary et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2509.05863](https://arxiv.org/abs/2509.05863)
- **Tags**: multilingual, synthesis
- **Abstract**: For individuals who have experienced traumatic events such as strokes, speech may no longer be a viable means of communication. While text-to-speech (TTS) can be used as a communication aid since it generates synthetic speech, it fails to preserve the user's own voice. As such, face-to-voice (FTV) synthesis, which derives corresponding voices from facial images, provides a promising alternative. However, existing methods rely on pre-trained visual encoders, and finetune them to align with speech embeddings, which strips fine-grained information from facial inputs such as gender or ethnicity, despite their known correlation with vocal traits. Moreover, these pipelines are multi-stage, which requires separate training of multiple components, thus leading to training inefficiency. To address these limitations, we utilize fine-grained facial attribute modeling by decomposing facial images into non-overlapping segments and progressively integrating them into a multi-granular representation. This representation is further refined through multi-task learning of speaker attributes such as gender and ethnicity at both the visual and acoustic domains. Moreover, to improve alignment robustness, we adopt a multi-view training strategy by pairing various visual perspectives of a speaker in terms of different angles and lighting conditions, with identical speech recordings. Extensive subjective and objective evaluations confirm that our approach substantially enhances face-voice congruence and synthesis stability.

