# TTS Papers - 2025-08-07

Total: 2

## A Scalable Pipeline for Enabling Non-Verbal Speech Generation and Understanding
- **Authors**: Runchuan Ye et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2508.05385](https://arxiv.org/abs/2508.05385)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: We present Voxlect, a novel benchmark for modeling dialects and regional languages worldwide using speech foundation models. Specifically, we report comprehensive benchmark evaluations on dialects and regional language varieties in English, Arabic, Mandarin and Cantonese, Tibetan, Indic languages, Thai, Spanish, French, German, Brazilian Portuguese, and Italian. Our study used over 2 million training utterances from 30 publicly available speech corpora that are provided with dialectal information. We evaluate the performance of several widely used speech foundation models in classifying speech dialects. We assess the robustness of the dialectal models under noisy conditions and present an error analysis that highlights modeling results aligned with geographic continuity. In addition to benchmarking dialect classification, we demonstrate several downstream applications enabled by Voxlect. Specifically, we show that Voxlect can be applied to augment existing speech recognition datasets with dialect information, enabling a more detailed analysis of ASR performance across dialectal variations. Voxlect is also used as a tool to evaluate the performance of speech generation systems. Voxlect is publicly available with the license of the RAIL family at: https://github.com/tiantiaf0627/voxlect.

## UniTalker: Conversational Speech-Visual Synthesis
- **Authors**: Yifan Hu et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2508.04585](https://arxiv.org/abs/2508.04585)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: Generative speech models have demonstrated significant potential in improving human-machine interactions, offering valuable real-world applications such as language learning for children. However, achieving high-quality, child-friendly speech generation remains challenging, particularly for low-resource languages across diverse languages and cultural contexts. In this paper, we propose MultiGen, a multilingual speech generation model with child-friendly interaction, leveraging LLM architecture for speech generation tailored for low-resource languages. We propose to integrate age-appropriate multilingual speech generation using LLM architectures, which can be used to facilitate young children's communication with AI systems through culturally relevant context in three low-resource languages: Singaporean accent Mandarin, Malay, and Tamil. Experimental results from both objective metrics and subjective evaluations demonstrate the superior performance of the proposed MultiGen compared to baseline methods.

