# TTS Papers - 2025-02-09

Total: 3

## Non-invasive electromyographic speech neuroprosthesis: a geometric perspective
- **Authors**: Harshavardhana T. Gowda et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2502.05762](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.05762)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: Several recent studies have attempted to autoregressively generate continuous speech representations without discrete speech tokens by combining diffusion and autoregressive models, yet they often face challenges with excessive computational loads or suboptimal outcomes. In this work, we propose Diffusion Transformer Autoregressive Modeling (DiTAR), a patch-based autoregressive framework combining a language model with a diffusion transformer. This approach significantly enhances the efficacy of autoregressive models for continuous tokens and reduces computational demands. DiTAR utilizes a divide-and-conquer strategy for patch generation, where the language model processes aggregated patch embeddings and the diffusion transformer subsequently generates the next patch based on the output of the language model. For inference, we propose defining temperature as the time point of introducing noise during the reverse diffusion ODE to balance diversity and determinism. We also show in the extensive scaling analysis that DiTAR has superb scalability. In zero-shot speech generation, DiTAR achieves state-of-the-art performance in robustness, speaker similarity, and naturalness.

## BnTTS: Few-Shot Speaker Adaptation in Low-Resource Setting
- **Authors**: Mohammad Jahid Ibna Basher et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2502.05729](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.05729)
- **Tags**: zero-shot, synthesis
- **Abstract**: Recently, large language model (LLM) based text-to-speech (TTS) systems have gradually become the mainstream in the industry due to their high naturalness and powerful zero-shot voice cloning capabilities.Here, we introduce the IndexTTS system, which is mainly based on the XTTS and Tortoise model. We add some novel improvements. Specifically, in Chinese scenarios, we adopt a hybrid modeling method that combines characters and pinyin, making the pronunciations of polyphonic characters and long-tail characters controllable. We also performed a comparative analysis of the Vector Quantization (VQ) with Finite-Scalar Quantization (FSQ) for codebook utilization of acoustic speech tokens. To further enhance the effect and stability of voice cloning, we introduce a conformer-based speech conditional encoder and replace the speechcode decoder with BigVGAN2. Compared with XTTS, it has achieved significant improvements in naturalness, content consistency, and zero-shot voice cloning. As for the popular TTS systems in the open-source, such as Fish-Speech, CosyVoice2, FireRedTTS and F5-TTS, IndexTTS has a relatively simple training process, more controllable usage, and faster inference speed. Moreover, its performance surpasses that of these systems. Our demos are available at https://index-tts.github.io.

## CSEval: Towards Automated, Multi-Dimensional, and Reference-Free Counterspeech Evaluation using Auto-Calibrated LLMs
- **Authors**: Amey Hengle et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2501.17581](https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.17581)
- **Tags**: llm-based
- **Abstract**: With the rapid advancement of neural audio codecs, codec-based speech generation (CoSG) systems have become highly powerful. Unfortunately, CoSG also enables the creation of highly realistic deepfake speech, making it easier to mimic an individual's voice and spread misinformation. We refer to this emerging deepfake speech generated by CoSG systems as CodecFake. Detecting such CodecFake is an urgent challenge, yet most existing systems primarily focus on detecting fake speech generated by traditional speech synthesis models. In this paper, we introduce CodecFake+, a large-scale dataset designed to advance CodecFake detection. To our knowledge, CodecFake+ is the largest dataset encompassing the most diverse range of codec architectures. The training set is generated through re-synthesis using 31 publicly available open-source codec models, while the evaluation set includes web-sourced data from 17 advanced CoSG models. We also propose a comprehensive taxonomy that categorizes codecs by their root components: vector quantizer, auxiliary objectives, and decoder types. Our proposed dataset and taxonomy enable detailed analysis at multiple levels to discern the key factors for successful CodecFake detection. At the individual codec level, we validate the effectiveness of using codec re-synthesized speech (CoRS) as training data for large-scale CodecFake detection. At the taxonomy level, we show that detection performance is strongest when the re-synthesis model incorporates disentanglement auxiliary objectives or a frequency-domain decoder. Furthermore, from the perspective of using all the CoRS training data, we show that our proposed taxonomy can be used to select better training data for improving detection performance. Overall, we envision that CodecFake+ will be a valuable resource for both general and fine-grained exploration to develop better anti-spoofing models against CodecFake.

