# TTS Papers - 2025-04-27

Total: 2

## Generative Adversarial Network based Voice Conversion: Techniques, Challenges, and Recent Advancements
- **Authors**: Sandipan Dhar et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2504.19197](https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.19197)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: Recently, fake audio detection has gained significant attention, as advancements in speech synthesis and voice conversion have increased the vulnerability of automatic speaker verification (ASV) systems to spoofing attacks. A key challenge in this task is generalizing models to detect unseen, out-of-distribution (OOD) attacks. Although existing approaches have shown promising results, they inherently suffer from overconfidence issues due to the usage of softmax for classification, which can produce unreliable predictions when encountering unpredictable spoofing attempts. To deal with this limitation, we propose a novel framework called fake audio detection with evidential learning (FADEL). By modeling class probabilities with a Dirichlet distribution, FADEL incorporates model uncertainty into its predictions, thereby leading to more robust performance in OOD scenarios. Experimental results on the ASVspoof2019 Logical Access (LA) and ASVspoof2021 LA datasets indicate that the proposed method significantly improves the performance of baseline models. Furthermore, we demonstrate the validity of uncertainty estimation by analyzing a strong correlation between average uncertainty and equal error rate (EER) across different spoofing algorithms.

## Muyan-TTS: A Trainable Text-to-Speech Model Optimized for Podcast Scenarios with a $50K Budget
- **Authors**: Xin Li et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2504.19146](https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.19146)
- **Tags**: synthesis
- **Abstract**: Recently, flow matching based speech synthesis has significantly enhanced the quality of synthesized speech while reducing the number of inference steps. In this paper, we introduce SlimSpeech, a lightweight and efficient speech synthesis system based on rectified flow. We have built upon the existing speech synthesis method utilizing the rectified flow model, modifying its structure to reduce parameters and serve as a teacher model. By refining the reflow operation, we directly derive a smaller model with a more straight sampling trajectory from the larger model, while utilizing distillation techniques to further enhance the model performance. Experimental results demonstrate that our proposed method, with significantly reduced model parameters, achieves comparable performance to larger models through one-step sampling.

