# TTS Papers - 2025-11-12

Total: 1

## End-to-end Contrastive Language-Speech Pretraining Model For Long-form Spoken Question Answering
- **Authors**: Jiliang Hu et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2511.09282](https://arxiv.org/abs/2511.09282)
- **Tags**: long-context, multilingual
- **Abstract**: Spoken dialogue models currently lack the ability for fine-grained speech style control, a critical capability for human-like interaction that is often overlooked in favor of purely functional capabilities like reasoning and question answering. To address this limitation, we introduce UltraVoice, the first large-scale speech dialogue dataset engineered for multiple fine-grained speech style control. Encompassing over 830 hours of speech dialogues, UltraVoice provides instructions across six key speech stylistic dimensions: emotion, speed, volume, accent, language, and composite styles. Fine-tuning leading models such as SLAM-Omni and VocalNet on UltraVoice significantly enhances their fine-grained speech stylistic controllability without degrading core conversational abilities. Specifically, our fine-tuned models achieve improvements of 29.12-42.33% in Mean Opinion Score (MOS) and 14.61-40.09 percentage points in Instruction Following Rate (IFR) on multi-dimensional control tasks designed in the UltraVoice. Moreover, on the URO-Bench benchmark, our fine-tuned models demonstrate substantial gains in core understanding, reasoning, and conversational abilities, with average improvements of +10.84% on the Basic setting and +7.87% on the Pro setting. Furthermore, the dataset's utility extends to training controllable Text-to-Speech (TTS) models, underscoring its high quality and broad applicability for expressive speech synthesis. The complete dataset and model checkpoints are available at: https://github.com/bigai-nlco/UltraVoice.

