# TTS Papers - 2025-01-11

Total: 3

## The 1st SpeechWellness Challenge: Detecting Suicidal Risk Among Adolescents
- **Authors**: Wen Wu et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2501.06474](https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.06474)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: Recent advancements in omnimodal learning have significantly improved understanding and generation across images, text, and speech, yet these developments remain predominantly confined to proprietary models. The lack of high-quality omnimodal datasets and the challenges of real-time emotional speech synthesis have notably hindered progress in open-source research. To address these limitations, we introduce \name, a two-stage training framework that integrates omnimodal alignment and speech generation to develop a state-of-the-art omnimodal large language model. In the alignment phase, a pre-trained speech model undergoes further training on text-image tasks, enabling (near) zero-shot generalization from vision to speech, outperforming models trained on tri-modal datasets. In the speech generation phase, a lightweight decoder is trained on speech tasks with direct preference optimization, enabling real-time emotional speech synthesis with high fidelity. Experiments show that \name surpasses state-of-the-art models across omnimodal, vision-language, and speech-language benchmarks. It achieves a 4-point absolute improvement on OmniBench over the leading open-source model VITA, despite using 5x fewer training samples and a smaller model size (7B vs. 7x8B). Additionally, \name achieves real-time speech generation with &lt;1s latency at non-autoregressive mode, reducing inference time by 5x compared to autoregressive methods, and improves emotion classification accuracy by 7.7\%

## Retrieval-Augmented Dialogue Knowledge Aggregation for Expressive Conversational Speech Synthesis
- **Authors**: Rui Liu et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2501.06467](https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.06467)
- **Tags**: expressive, synthesis
- **Abstract**: While expressive speech synthesis or voice conversion systems mainly focus on controlling or manipulating abstract prosodic characteristics of speech, such as emotion or accent, we here address the control of perceptual voice qualities (PVQs) recognized by phonetic experts, which are speech properties at a lower level of abstraction. The ability to manipulate PVQs can be a valuable tool for teaching speech pathologists in training or voice actors. In this paper, we integrate a Conditional Continuous-Normalizing-Flow-based method into a Text-to-Speech system to modify perceptual voice attributes on a continuous scale. Unlike previous approaches, our system avoids direct manipulation of acoustic correlates and instead learns from examples. We demonstrate the system's capability by manipulating four voice qualities: Roughness, breathiness, resonance and weight. Phonetic experts evaluated these modifications, both for seen and unseen speaker conditions. The results highlight both the system's strengths and areas for improvement.

## Unispeaker: A Unified Approach for Multimodality-driven Speaker Generation
- **Authors**: Zhengyan Sheng et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2501.06394](https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.06394)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: Speech synthesis has significantly advanced from statistical methods to deep neural network architectures, leading to various text-to-speech (TTS) models that closely mimic human speech patterns. However, capturing nuances such as emotion and style in speech synthesis is challenging. To address this challenge, we introduce an approach centered on prompt-based emotion control. The proposed architecture incorporates emotion and intensity control across multi-speakers. Furthermore, we leverage large language models (LLMs) to manipulate speech prosody while preserving linguistic content. Using embedding emotional cues, regulating intensity levels, and guiding prosodic variations with prompts, our approach infuses synthesized speech with human-like expressiveness and variability. Lastly, we demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach through a systematic exploration of the control mechanisms mentioned above.

