# TTS Papers - 2025-05-14

Total: 2

## SingNet: Towards a Large-Scale, Diverse, and In-the-Wild Singing Voice Dataset
- **Authors**: Yicheng Gu et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2505.09325](https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.09325)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: This paper explores multi-modal controllable Text-to-Speech Synthesis (TTS) where the voice can be generated from face image, and the characteristics of output speech (e.g., pace, noise level, distance, tone, place) can be controllable with natural text description. Specifically, we aim to mitigate the following three challenges in face-driven TTS systems. 1) To overcome the limited audio quality of audio-visual speech corpora, we propose a training method that additionally utilizes high-quality audio-only speech corpora. 2) To generate voices not only from real human faces but also from artistic portraits, we propose augmenting the input face image with stylization. 3) To consider one-to-many possibilities in face-to-voice mapping and ensure consistent voice generation at the same time, we propose to first employ sampling-based decoding and then use prompting with generated speech samples. Experimental results validate the proposed model's effectiveness in face-driven voice synthesis.

## DPN-GAN: Inducing Periodic Activations in Generative Adversarial Networks for High-Fidelity Audio Synthesis
- **Authors**: Zeeshan Ahmad et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2505.09091](https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.09091)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: Text-to-speech (TTS) systems have seen significant advancements in recent years, driven by improvements in deep learning and neural network architectures. Viewing the output speech as a data distribution, previous approaches often employ traditional speech representations, such as waveforms or spectrograms, within the Flow Matching framework. However, these methods have limitations, including overlooking various speech attributes and incurring high computational costs due to additional constraints introduced during training. To address these challenges, we introduce OZSpeech, the first TTS method to explore optimal transport conditional flow matching with one-step sampling and a learned prior as the condition, effectively disregarding preceding states and reducing the number of sampling steps. Our approach operates on disentangled, factorized components of speech in token format, enabling accurate modeling of each speech attribute, which enhances the TTS system's ability to precisely clone the prompt speech. Experimental results show that our method achieves promising performance over existing methods in content accuracy, naturalness, prosody generation, and speaker style preservation. Audio samples are available at our demo page https://ozspeech.github.io/OZSpeech_Web/.

