# TTS Papers - 2025-10-19

Total: 1

## U-Codec: Ultra Low Frame-rate Neural Speech Codec for Fast High-fidelity Speech Generation
- **Authors**: Xusheng Yang et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2510.16718](https://arxiv.org/abs/2510.16718)
- **Tags**: streaming, codec
- **Abstract**: This paper presents a novel framework for speech transcription and synthesis, leveraging edge-cloud parallelism to enhance processing speed and accessibility for Kinyarwanda and Swahili speakers. It addresses the scarcity of powerful language processing tools for these widely spoken languages in East African countries with limited technological infrastructure. The framework utilizes the Whisper and SpeechT5 pre-trained models to enable speech-to-text (STT) and text-to-speech (TTS) translation. The architecture uses a cascading mechanism that distributes the model inference workload between the edge device and the cloud, thereby reducing latency and resource usage, benefiting both ends. On the edge device, our approach achieves a memory usage compression of 9.5% for the SpeechT5 model and 14% for the Whisper model, with a maximum memory usage of 149 MB. Experimental results indicate that on a 1.7 GHz CPU edge device with a 1 MB/s network bandwidth, the system can process a 270-character text in less than a minute for both speech-to-text and text-to-speech transcription. Using real-world survey data from Kenya, it is shown that the cascaded edge-cloud architecture proposed could easily serve as an excellent platform for STT and TTS transcription with good accuracy and response time.

