# TTS Papers - 2025-03-28

Total: 3

## Cross-Technology Generalization in Synthesized Speech Detection: Evaluating AST Models with Modern Voice Generators
- **Authors**: Andrew Ustinov et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2503.22503](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.22503)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: Traditional text-to-speech (TTS) methods primarily focus on establishing a mapping between phonemes and mel-spectrograms. However, during the phoneme encoding stage, there is often a lack of real mel-spectrogram auxiliary information, which results in the encoding process lacking true semantic understanding. At the same time, traditional TTS systems often struggle to balance the inference speed of the model with the quality of the synthesized speech. Methods that generate high-quality synthesized speech tend to have slower inference speeds, while faster inference methods often sacrifice speech quality. In this paper, I propose Clip-TTS, a TTS method based on the Clip architecture. This method uses the Clip framework to establish a connection between text content and real mel-spectrograms during the text encoding stage, enabling the text encoder to directly learn the true semantics of the global context, thereby ensuring the quality of the synthesized speech. In terms of model architecture, I adopt the basic structure of Transformer, which allows Clip-TTS to achieve fast inference speeds. Experimental results show that on the LJSpeech and Baker datasets, the speech generated by Clip-TTS achieves state-of-the-art MOS scores, and it also performs excellently on multi-emotion datasets.Audio samples are available at: https://ltydd1314.github.io/.

## DeepAudio-V1:Towards Multi-Modal Multi-Stage End-to-End Video to Speech and Audio Generation
- **Authors**: Haomin Zhang et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2503.22265](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.22265)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: While recent zero-shot text-to-speech (TTS) models have significantly improved speech quality and expressiveness, mainstream systems still suffer from issues related to speech-text alignment modeling: 1) models without explicit speech-text alignment modeling exhibit less robustness, especially for hard sentences in practical applications; 2) predefined alignment-based models suffer from naturalness constraints of forced alignments. This paper introduces \textit{MegaTTS 3}, a TTS system featuring an innovative sparse alignment algorithm that guides the latent diffusion transformer (DiT). Specifically, we provide sparse alignment boundaries to MegaTTS 3 to reduce the difficulty of alignment without limiting the search space, thereby achieving high naturalness. Moreover, we employ a multi-condition classifier-free guidance strategy for accent intensity adjustment and adopt the piecewise rectified flow technique to accelerate the generation process. Experiments demonstrate that MegaTTS 3 achieves state-of-the-art zero-shot TTS speech quality and supports highly flexible control over accent intensity. Notably, our system can generate high-quality one-minute speech with only 8 sampling steps. Audio samples are available at https://sditdemo.github.io/sditdemo/.

## FireRedTTS-1S: An Upgraded Streamable Foundation Text-to-Speech System
- **Authors**: Hao-Han Guo et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2503.20499](https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.20499)
- **Tags**: synthesis
- **Abstract**: Speech enhancement (SE) is the foundational task of enhancing the clarity and quality of speech in the presence of non-stationary additive noise. While deterministic deep learning models have been commonly employed for SE, recent research indicates that generative models, such as denoising diffusion probabilistic models (DDPMs), have shown promise. However, unlike speech generation, SE has a strong constraint in generating results in accordance with the underlying ground-truth signal. Additionally, for a wide variety of applications, SE systems need to be employed in real-time, and traditional diffusion models (DMs) requiring many iterations of a large model during inference are inefficient. To address these issues, we propose ProSE (diffusion-based Priors for SE), a novel methodology based on an alternative framework for applying diffusion models to SE. Specifically, we first apply DDPMs to generate priors in a latent space due to their powerful distribution mapping capabilities. The priors are then integrated into a transformer-based regression model for SE. The priors guide the regression model in the enhancement process. Since the diffusion process is applied to a compact latent space, the diffusion model takes fewer iterations than the traditional DM to obtain accurate estimations. Additionally, using a regression model for SE avoids the distortion issue caused by misaligned details generated by DMs. Our experiments show that ProSE achieves state-of-the-art performance on benchmark datasets with fewer computational costs.

