# TTS Papers - 2025-08-25

Total: 2

## Unseen Speaker and Language Adaptation for Lightweight Text-To-Speech with Adapters
- **Authors**: Alessio Falai et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2508.18006](https://arxiv.org/abs/2508.18006)
- **Tags**: multilingual, synthesis
- **Abstract**: In long-text speech synthesis, current approaches typically convert text to speech at the sentence-level and concatenate the results to form pseudo-paragraph-level speech. These methods overlook the contextual coherence of paragraphs, leading to reduced naturalness and inconsistencies in style and timbre across the long-form speech. To address these issues, we propose a Context-Aware Memory (CAM)-based long-context Text-to-Speech (TTS) model. The CAM block integrates and retrieves both long-term memory and local context details, enabling dynamic memory updates and transfers within long paragraphs to guide sentence-level speech synthesis. Furthermore, the prefix mask enhances the in-context learning ability by enabling bidirectional attention on prefix tokens while maintaining unidirectional generation. Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed method outperforms baseline and state-of-the-art long-context methods in terms of prosody expressiveness, coherence and context inference cost across paragraph-level speech.

## ClearMask: Noise-Free and Naturalness-Preserving Protection Against Voice Deepfake Attacks
- **Authors**: Yuanda Wang et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2508.17660](https://arxiv.org/abs/2508.17660)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: Diffusion models have demonstrated remarkable capabilities in generating high-quality samples and enhancing performance across diverse domains through Classifier-Free Guidance (CFG). However, the quality of generated samples is highly sensitive to the selection of the guidance weight. In this work, we identify a critical ``training-inference gap'' and we argue that it is the presence of this gap that undermines the performance of conditional generation and renders outputs highly sensitive to the guidance weight. We quantify this gap by measuring the accumulated error during the inference stage and establish a correlation between the selection of guidance weight and minimizing this gap. Furthermore, to mitigate this gap, we propose DiffIER, an optimization-based method for high-quality generation. We demonstrate that the accumulated error can be effectively reduced by an iterative error minimization at each step during inference. By introducing this novel plug-and-play optimization framework, we enable the optimization of errors at every single inference step and enhance generation quality. Empirical results demonstrate that our proposed method outperforms baseline approaches in conditional generation tasks. Furthermore, the method achieves consistent success in text-to-image generation, image super-resolution, and text-to-speech generation, underscoring its versatility and potential for broad applications in future research.

