# TTS Papers - 2025-08-01

Total: 2

## Advancing Speech Quality Assessment Through Scientific Challenges and Open-source Activities
- **Authors**: Wen-Chin Huang et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2508.00317](https://arxiv.org/abs/2508.00317)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: The rapid advancement of speech generation technology has led to the widespread proliferation of deepfake speech across social media platforms. While deepfake audio countermeasures (CMs) achieve promising results on public datasets, their performance degrades significantly in cross-domain scenarios. To advance CMs for real-world deepfake detection, we first propose the Fake Speech Wild (FSW) dataset, which includes 254 hours of real and deepfake audio from four different media platforms, focusing on social media. As CMs, we establish a benchmark using public datasets and advanced selfsupervised learning (SSL)-based CMs to evaluate current CMs in real-world scenarios. We also assess the effectiveness of data augmentation strategies in enhancing CM robustness for detecting deepfake speech on social media. Finally, by augmenting public datasets and incorporating the FSW training set, we significantly advanced real-world deepfake audio detection performance, achieving an average equal error rate (EER) of 3.54% across all evaluation sets.

## Next Tokens Denoising for Speech Synthesis
- **Authors**: Yanqing Liu et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2507.22746](https://arxiv.org/abs/2507.22746)
- **Tags**: synthesis
- **Abstract**: Recently, mainstream mel-spectrogram-based neural vocoders rely on generative adversarial network (GAN) for high-fidelity speech generation, e.g., HiFi-GAN and BigVGAN. However, the use of GAN restricts training efficiency and model complexity. Therefore, this paper proposes a novel FreeGAN vocoder, aiming to answer the question of whether GAN is necessary for mel-spectrogram-based neural vocoders. The FreeGAN employs an amplitude-phase serial prediction framework, eliminating the need for GAN training. It incorporates amplitude prior input, SNAKE-ConvNeXt v2 backbone and frequency-weighted anti-wrapping phase loss to compensate for the performance loss caused by the absence of GAN. Experimental results confirm that the speech quality of FreeGAN is comparable to that of advanced GAN-based vocoders, while significantly improving training efficiency and complexity. Other explicit-phase-prediction-based neural vocoders can also work without GAN, leveraging our proposed methods.

