# TTS Papers - 2025-05-24

Total: 1

## MPE-TTS: Customized Emotion Zero-Shot Text-To-Speech Using Multi-Modal Prompt
- **Authors**: Zhichao Wu et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2505.18453](https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.18453)
- **Tags**: zero-shot, expressive, synthesis
- **Abstract**: The emergence of multi-codebook neutral audio codecs such as Residual Vector Quantization (RVQ) and Group Vector Quantization (GVQ) has significantly advanced Large-Language-Model (LLM) based Text-to-Speech (TTS) systems. These codecs are crucial in separating semantic and acoustic information while efficiently harnessing semantic priors. However, since semantic and acoustic information cannot be fully aligned, a significant drawback of these methods when applied to LLM-based TTS is that large language models may have limited access to comprehensive audio information. To address this limitation, we propose DistilCodec and UniTTS, which collectively offer the following advantages: 1) This method can distill a multi-codebook audio codec into a single-codebook audio codec with 32,768 codes while achieving a near 100\% utilization. 2) As DistilCodec does not employ a semantic alignment scheme, a large amount of high-quality unlabeled audio (such as audiobooks with sound effects, songs, etc.) can be incorporated during training, further expanding data diversity and broadening its applicability. 3) Leveraging the comprehensive audio information modeling of DistilCodec, we integrated three key tasks into UniTTS's pre-training framework: audio modality autoregression, text modality autoregression, and speech-text cross-modal autoregression. This allows UniTTS to accept interleaved text and speech/audio prompts while substantially preserving LLM's text capabilities. 4) UniTTS employs a three-stage training process: Pre-Training, Supervised Fine-Tuning (SFT), and Alignment. Source code and model checkpoints are publicly available at https://github.com/IDEA-Emdoor-Lab/UniTTS and https://github.com/IDEA-Emdoor-Lab/DistilCodec.

