# TTS Papers - 2025-07-06

Total: 2

## A Hybrid Machine Learning Framework for Optimizing Crop Selection via Agronomic and Economic Forecasting
- **Authors**: Niranjan Mallikarjun Sindhur et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2507.08832](https://arxiv.org/abs/2507.08832)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: Dementia, a neurodegenerative disease, alters speech patterns, creating communication barriers and raising privacy concerns. Current speech technologies, such as automatic speech transcription (ASR), struggle with dementia and atypical speech, further challenging accessibility. This paper presents a novel dementia obfuscation in speech framework, ClaritySpeech, integrating ASR, text obfuscation, and zero-shot text-to-speech (TTS) to correct dementia-affected speech while preserving speaker identity in low-data environments without fine-tuning. Results show a 16% and 10% drop in mean F1 score across various adversarial settings and modalities (audio, text, fusion) for ADReSS and ADReSSo, respectively, maintaining 50% speaker similarity. We also find that our system improves WER (from 0.73 to 0.08 for ADReSS and 0.15 for ADReSSo) and speech quality from 1.65 to ~2.15, enhancing privacy and accessibility.

## TTS-CtrlNet: Time varying emotion aligned text-to-speech generation with ControlNet
- **Authors**: Jaeseok Jeong et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2507.04349](https://arxiv.org/abs/2507.04349)
- **Tags**: expressive, synthesis
- **Abstract**: Empathetic interaction is a cornerstone of human-machine communication, due to the need for understanding speech enriched with paralinguistic cues and generating emotional and expressive responses. However, the most powerful empathetic LSLMs are increasingly closed off, leaving the crucial details about the architecture, data and development opaque to researchers. Given the critical need for transparent research into the LSLMs and empathetic behavior, we present OpenS2S, a fully open-source, transparent and end-to-end LSLM designed to enable empathetic speech interactions. Based on our empathetic speech-to-text model BLSP-Emo, OpenS2S further employs a streaming interleaved decoding architecture to achieve low-latency speech generation. To facilitate end-to-end training, OpenS2S incorporates an automated data construction pipeline that synthesizes diverse, high-quality empathetic speech dialogues at low cost. By leveraging large language models to generate empathetic content and controllable text-to-speech systems to introduce speaker and emotional variation, we construct a scalable training corpus with rich paralinguistic diversity and minimal human supervision. We release the fully open-source OpenS2S model, including the dataset, model weights, pre-training and fine-tuning codes, to empower the broader research community and accelerate innovation in empathetic speech systems. The project webpage can be accessed at https://casia-lm.github.io/OpenS2S

