# TTS Papers - 2025-06-05

Total: 2

## Intelligibility of Text-to-Speech Systems for Mathematical Expressions
- **Authors**: Sujoy Roychowdhury et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2506.11086](https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.11086)
- **Tags**: synthesis
- **Abstract**: This paper proposes a highly compact, lightweight text-to-speech (TTS) model for on-device applications. To reduce the model size, the proposed model introduces two techniques. First, we introduce quantization-aware training (QAT), which quantizes model parameters during training to as low as 1.58-bit. In this case, most of 32-bit model parameters are quantized to ternary values {-1, 0, 1}. Second, we propose a method named weight indexing. In this method, we save a group of 1.58-bit weights as a single int8 index. This allows for efficient storage of model parameters, even on hardware that treats values in units of 8-bit. Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed method achieved 83 % reduction in model size, while outperforming the baseline of similar model size without quantization in synthesis quality.

## Grapheme-Coherent Phonemic and Prosodic Annotation of Speech by Implicit and Explicit Grapheme Conditioning
- **Authors**: Hien Ohnaka et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2506.04527](https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.04527)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: Neural audio codecs, used as speech tokenizers, have demonstrated remarkable potential in the field of speech generation. However, to ensure high-fidelity audio reconstruction, neural audio codecs typically encode audio into long sequences of speech tokens, posing a significant challenge for downstream language models in long-context modeling. We observe that speech token sequences exhibit short-range dependency: due to the monotonic alignment between text and speech in text-to-speech (TTS) tasks, the prediction of the current token primarily relies on its local context, while long-range tokens contribute less to the current token prediction and often contain redundant information. Inspired by this observation, we propose a \textbf{compressed-to-fine language modeling} approach to address the challenge of long sequence speech tokens within neural codec language models: (1) \textbf{Fine-grained Initial and Short-range Information}: Our approach retains the prompt and local tokens during prediction to ensure text alignment and the integrity of paralinguistic information; (2) \textbf{Compressed Long-range Context}: Our approach compresses long-range token spans into compact representations to reduce redundant information while preserving essential semantics. Extensive experiments on various neural audio codecs and downstream language models validate the effectiveness and generalizability of the proposed approach, highlighting the importance of token compression in improving speech generation within neural codec language models. The demo of audio samples will be available at https://anonymous.4open.science/r/SpeechTokenPredictionViaCompressedToFinedLM.

