# TTS Papers - 2025-07-25

Total: 2

## GOAT-SLM: A Spoken Language Model with Paralinguistic and Speaker Characteristic Awareness
- **Authors**: Hongjie Chen et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2507.18119](https://arxiv.org/abs/2507.18119)
- **Tags**: multilingual
- **Abstract**: In speech quality estimation for speech enhancement (SE) systems, subjective listening tests so far are considered as the gold standard. This should be even more true considering the large influx of new generative or hybrid methods into the field, revealing issues of some objective metrics. Efforts such as the Interspeech 2025 URGENT Speech Enhancement Challenge also involving non-English datasets add the aspect of multilinguality to the testing procedure. In this paper, we provide a brief recap of the ITU-T P.808 crowdsourced subjective listening test method. A first novel contribution is our proposed process of localizing both text and audio components of Naderi and Cutler's implementation of crowdsourced subjective absolute category rating (ACR) listening tests involving text-to-speech (TTS). Further, we provide surprising analyses of and insights into URGENT Challenge results, tackling the reliability of (P.808) ACR subjective testing as gold standard in the age of generative AI. Particularly, it seems that for generative SE methods, subjective (ACR MOS) and objective (DNSMOS, NISQA) reference-free metrics should be accompanied by objective phone fidelity metrics to reliably detect hallucinations. Finally, we will soon release our localization scripts and methods for easy deployment for new multilingual speech enhancement subjective evaluations according to ITU-T P.808.

## P.808 Multilingual Speech Enhancement Testing: Approach and Results of URGENT 2025 Challenge
- **Authors**: Marvin Sach et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2507.11306](https://arxiv.org/abs/2507.11306)
- **Tags**: multilingual
- **Abstract**: Recent advances in Text-To-Speech (TTS) technology have enabled synthetic speech to mimic human voices with remarkable realism, raising significant security concerns. This underscores the need for traceable TTS models-systems capable of tracing their synthesized speech without compromising quality or security. However, existing methods predominantly rely on explicit watermarking on speech or on vocoder, which degrades speech quality and is vulnerable to spoofing. To address these limitations, we propose a novel framework for model attribution. Instead of embedding watermarks, we train the TTS model and discriminator using a joint training method that significantly improves traceability generalization while preserving-and even slightly improving-audio quality. This is the first work toward watermark-free TTS with strong traceability. To promote progress in related fields, we will release the code upon acceptance of the paper.

