# TTS Papers - 2025-02-04

Total: 2

## Developing multilingual speech synthesis system for Ojibwe, Mi'kmaq, and Maliseet
- **Authors**: Shenran Wang et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2502.02703](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.02703)
- **Tags**: multilingual, synthesis
- **Abstract**: Recent advancements in controllable expressive speech synthesis, especially in text-to-speech (TTS) models, have allowed for the generation of speech with specific styles guided by textual descriptions, known as style prompts. While this development enhances the flexibility and naturalness of synthesized speech, there remains a significant gap in understanding how these models handle vague or abstract style prompts. This study investigates the potential gender bias in how models interpret occupation-related prompts, specifically examining their responses to instructions like "Act like a nurse". We explore whether these models exhibit tendencies to amplify gender stereotypes when interpreting such prompts. Our experimental results reveal the model's tendency to exhibit gender bias for certain occupations. Moreover, models of different sizes show varying degrees of this bias across these occupations.

## Streaming Speaker Change Detection and Gender Classification for Transducer-Based Multi-Talker Speech Translation
- **Authors**: Peidong Wang et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2502.02683](https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.02683)
- **Tags**: streaming
- **Abstract**: Amphion is an open-source toolkit for Audio, Music, and Speech Generation, designed to lower the entry barrier for junior researchers and engineers in these fields. It provides a versatile framework that supports a variety of generation tasks and models. In this report, we introduce Amphion v0.2, the second major release developed in 2024. This release features a 100K-hour open-source multilingual dataset, a robust data preparation pipeline, and novel models for tasks such as text-to-speech, audio coding, and voice conversion. Furthermore, the report includes multiple tutorials that guide users through the functionalities and usage of the newly released models.

