# TTS Papers - 2025-01-24

Total: 3

## Characteristic-Specific Partial Fine-Tuning for Efficient Emotion and Speaker Adaptation in Codec Language Text-to-Speech Models
- **Authors**: Tianrui Wang et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2501.14273](https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.14273)
- **Tags**: zero-shot, expressive, multilingual, synthesis
- **Abstract**: Conversational speech synthesis (CSS) aims to take the current dialogue (CD) history as a reference to synthesize expressive speech that aligns with the conversational style. Unlike CD, stored dialogue (SD) contains preserved dialogue fragments from earlier stages of user-agent interaction, which include style expression knowledge relevant to scenarios similar to those in CD. Note that this knowledge plays a significant role in enabling the agent to synthesize expressive conversational speech that generates empathetic feedback. However, prior research has overlooked this aspect. To address this issue, we propose a novel Retrieval-Augmented Dialogue Knowledge Aggregation scheme for expressive CSS, termed RADKA-CSS, which includes three main components: 1) To effectively retrieve dialogues from SD that are similar to CD in terms of both semantic and style. First, we build a stored dialogue semantic-style database (SDSSD) which includes the text and audio samples. Then, we design a multi-attribute retrieval scheme to match the dialogue semantic and style vectors of the CD with the stored dialogue semantic and style vectors in the SDSSD, retrieving the most similar dialogues. 2) To effectively utilize the style knowledge from CD and SD, we propose adopting the multi-granularity graph structure to encode the dialogue and introducing a multi-source style knowledge aggregation mechanism. 3) Finally, the aggregated style knowledge are fed into the speech synthesizer to help the agent synthesize expressive speech that aligns with the conversational style. We conducted a comprehensive and in-depth experiment based on the DailyTalk dataset, which is a benchmarking dataset for the CSS task. Both objective and subjective evaluations demonstrate that RADKA-CSS outperforms baseline models in expressiveness rendering. Code and audio samples can be found at: https://github.com/Coder-jzq/RADKA-CSS.

## Generalizable Audio Deepfake Detection via Latent Space Refinement and Augmentation
- **Authors**: Wen Huang et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2501.14240](https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.14240)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: Interpretability work on the convolutional layers of CNNs has primarily focused on computer vision, but some studies also explore correspondences between the latent space and the output in the audio domain. However, it has not been thoroughly examined how acoustic and linguistic information is represented in the fully connected (FC) layer that bridges the latent space and convolutional layers. The current study presents the first exploration of how the FC layer of CNNs for speech synthesis encodes linguistically relevant information. We propose two techniques for exploration of the fully connected layer. In Experiment 1, we use weight matrices as inputs into convolutional layers. In Experiment 2, we manipulate the FC layer to explore how symbolic-like representations are encoded in CNNs. We leverage the fact that the FC layer outputs a feature map and that variable-specific weight matrices are temporally structured to (1) demonstrate how the distribution of learned weights varies between latent variables in systematic ways and (2) demonstrate how manipulating the FC layer while holding constant subsequent model parameters affects the output. We ultimately present an FC manipulation that can output a single segment. Using this technique, we show that lexically specific latent codes in generative CNNs (ciwGAN) have shared lexically invariant sublexical representations in the FC-layer weights, showing that ciwGAN encodes lexical information in a linguistically principled manner.

## LoCoML: A Framework for Real-World ML Inference Pipelines
- **Authors**: Kritin Maddireddy et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2501.14165](https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.14165)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: We present lightweight flow matching multilingual text-to-speech (TTS) systems for Ojibwe, Mi'kmaq, and Maliseet, three Indigenous languages in North America. Our results show that training a multilingual TTS model on three typologically similar languages can improve the performance over monolingual models, especially when data are scarce. Attention-free architectures are highly competitive with self-attention architecture with higher memory efficiency. Our research not only advances technical development for the revitalization of low-resource languages but also highlights the cultural gap in human evaluation protocols, calling for a more community-centered approach to human evaluation.

