# TTS Papers - 2025-11-29

Total: 1

## STCTS: Generative Semantic Compression for Ultra-Low Bitrate Speech via Explicit Text-Prosody-Timbre Decomposition
- **Authors**: Siyu Wang et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2512.00451](https://arxiv.org/abs/2512.00451)
- **Tags**: expressive
- **Abstract**: Virtual acoustic environments enable the creation and simulation of realistic and eco-logically valid daily-life situations vital for hearing research and audiology. Reverberant indoor environments are particularly important. For real-time applications, room acous-tics simulation requires simplifications, however, the necessary acoustic level of detail (ALOD) remains unclear in order to capture all perceptually relevant effects. This study examines the impact of varying ALOD in simulations of three real environments: a living room with a coupled kitchen, a pub, and an underground station. ALOD was varied by generating different numbers of image sources for early reflections, or by excluding geo-metrical room details specific for each environment. Simulations were perceptually eval-uated using headphones in comparison to binaural room impulse responses measured with a dummy head in the corresponding real environments, or by using loudspeakers. The study assessed the perceived overall difference for a pulse stimulus, a played electric bass and a speech token. Additionally, plausibility, speech intelligibility, and externaliza-tion were evaluated. Results indicate that a strong reduction in ALOD is feasible while maintaining similar plausibility, speech intelligibility, and externalization as with dummy head recordings. The number and accuracy of early reflections appear less relevant, pro-vided diffuse late reverberation is appropriately represented.

