# TTS Papers - 2025-01-02

Total: 3

## FaceSpeak: Expressive and High-Quality Speech Synthesis from Human Portraits of Different Styles
- **Authors**: Tian-Hao Zhang et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2501.03181](https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.03181)
- **Tags**: expressive, synthesis
- **Abstract**: Recent advancements in text-to-speech and speech conversion technologies have enabled the creation of highly convincing synthetic speech. While these innovations offer numerous practical benefits, they also cause significant security challenges when maliciously misused. Therefore, there is an urgent need to detect these synthetic speech signals. Phoneme features provide a powerful speech representation for deepfake detection. However, previous phoneme-based detection approaches typically focused on specific phonemes, overlooking temporal inconsistencies across the entire phoneme sequence. In this paper, we develop a new mechanism for detecting speech deepfakes by identifying the inconsistencies of phoneme-level speech features. We design an adaptive phoneme pooling technique that extracts sample-specific phoneme-level features from frame-level speech data. By applying this technique to features extracted by pre-trained audio models on previously unseen deepfake datasets, we demonstrate that deepfake samples often exhibit phoneme-level inconsistencies when compared to genuine speech. To further enhance detection accuracy, we propose a deepfake detector that uses a graph attention network to model the temporal dependencies of phoneme-level features. Additionally, we introduce a random phoneme substitution augmentation technique to increase feature diversity during training. Extensive experiments on four benchmark datasets demonstrate the superior performance of our method over existing state-of-the-art detection methods.

## RingFormer: A Neural Vocoder with Ring Attention and Convolution-Augmented Transformer
- **Authors**: Seongho Hong et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2501.01182](https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.01182)
- **Tags**: codec, llm-based
- **Abstract**: Visual Text-to-Speech (VTTS) aims to take the environmental image as the prompt to synthesize the reverberant speech for the spoken content. The challenge of this task lies in understanding the spatial environment from the image. Many attempts have been made to extract global spatial visual information from the RGB space of an spatial image. However, local and depth image information are crucial for understanding the spatial environment, which previous works have ignored. To address the issues, we propose a novel multi-modal and multi-scale spatial environment understanding scheme to achieve immersive VTTS, termed M2SE-VTTS. The multi-modal aims to take both the RGB and Depth spaces of the spatial image to learn more comprehensive spatial information, and the multi-scale seeks to model the local and global spatial knowledge simultaneously. Specifically, we first split the RGB and Depth images into patches and adopt the Gemini-generated environment captions to guide the local spatial understanding. After that, the multi-modal and multi-scale features are integrated by the local-aware global spatial understanding. In this way, M2SE-VTTS effectively models the interactions between local and global spatial contexts in the multi-modal spatial environment. Objective and subjective evaluations suggest that our model outperforms the advanced baselines in environmental speech generation. The code and audio samples are available at: https://github.com/AI-S2-Lab/M2SE-VTTS.

## Disambiguation of Chinese Polyphones in an End-to-End Framework with Semantic Features Extracted by Pre-trained BERT
- **Authors**: Dongyang Dai et.al.
- **arXiv**: [2501.01102](https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.01102)
- **Tags**: other
- **Abstract**: Current Non-Audible Murmur (NAM)-to-speech techniques rely on voice cloning to simulate ground-truth speech from paired whispers. However, the simulated speech often lacks intelligibility and fails to generalize well across different speakers. To address this issue, we focus on learning phoneme-level alignments from paired whispers and text and employ a Text-to-Speech (TTS) system to simulate the ground-truth. To reduce dependence on whispers, we learn phoneme alignments directly from NAMs, though the quality is constrained by the available training data. To further mitigate reliance on NAM/whisper data for ground-truth simulation, we propose incorporating the lip modality to infer speech and introduce a novel diffusion-based method that leverages recent advancements in lip-to-speech technology. Additionally, we release the MultiNAM dataset with over 7.96 hours of paired NAM, whisper, video, and text data from two speakers and benchmark all methods on this dataset. Speech samples and the dataset are available at https://diff-nam.github.io/DiffNAM/

